1
FRAMEWORK FOR POLICY AND RULES FORMULATION AND REVIEWReference Number:GA_P005Body responsible for Final Approval:BoardManagement Approval:CEO SignatureDate of Final Approval:2022Date of Implementation:1 January 2022Revision Date:2025Previous Revisions:n/aPolicy Owner:Chief Executive OfficerInstitutional functionary responsible:Head: Executive Support and Governance
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS1.PURPOSE32.AIM33.SCOPE34.AUTHORITY35.DEFINITIONS36.POLICY RULES AND DEVELOPMENT47.POLICY/RULES DIRECTORY48.EFFECTIVE USE OF POLICIES AND RULES59.INTERIM POLICY AND RULES ARRANGEMENT510.PROCEDURES SUPPORTING POLICIES AND RULES511.POLICY REVIEW5
3
FRAMEWORK FOR POLICY AND RULES FORMULATION AND REVIEW1.
PURPOSE1.1
Policies and rules direct and control institutional operations and apply evenly across STADIOtoensure consistency in the performance of activities, especially in cases where campuses are geographically scattered.   1.2
An institutional Framework for policy and rules formulation and review facilitates compliance and reduces institutional risk.2.
AIM2.1
The Framework for Policy and Rules Formulation and Review aims to ensure that institutional policies and rules are developed, approved, presented, monitored,and reviewed using a standard format and framework.  2.2
The Framework establishes theauthority, development responsibilities, approvals, use, amendments,and stakeholder involvement when new policies and rules are developed,or existing policies and rules reviewed for amendment.2.3
The Framework further ensures that all policies and rules:2.3.1
reflect STADIO’s ethos notably its vision, mission, values and commitments;2.3.2
are relevant and current;2.3.3
are developed, reviewed and maintained in a consistent manner; 2.3.4
channel actions and behaviours, decisions and practices in a manner that promotes the realisation of the institutional strategy2.4
The Framework providesa single point of reference for the principles that will guide the development and review of policiesand rules at STADIO.3.
SCOPE3.1
The Framework sets the rules for the development and implementation of new policies and rules, as well as the review and amendment of existing policies and rules.3.2
The reference to Policy shall include all Rules, Codesand Charters.4.
AUTHORITY4.1
All policies and rules must be approved by the Board of STADIO.5.
DEFINITIONSAmendmentmeans a formal change that revises the intent or significantly affects the content or application of the policy.Frameworkmeans Framework for Policy and RulesFormulation and Review.
4
Institutionmeans STADIO (Pty) Ltd, a duly registered private higher education institution with registration number 2008/HE/07/004.Policy Ownermeans the institutional officer whose jurisdiction covers the subject matter of the policy. Policy Registermeans the official repository for all current policiesof STADIO.Policy Reviewmeans the process to determine whether a policy is still relevant and if there are changes required to improve the effectiveness of the policy.STADIO means STADIO (Pty) Ltd.6.
POLICY AND RULESDEVELOPMENT6.1
The initiator of a policy or rule is responsible for preparing the first draft of a document.6.2
The approval of the first draft is subject to a consultative process.  Stakeholder consultationand/or discussion will be determined by the type of policy or rule being developed. 6.3
The final draft of the policy/rule must be submitted to the Executive Committee for recommendation to the Board.6.4
Every policy/rule must:6.4.1
have a title that clearly identifies the area/issue covered by the policy;6.4.2
set out the activities to be performed in terms of the policy;6.4.3
be concise and easy to understand;6.4.4
indicate the Policy Owner as well as a manager who will be responsible for the implementation, review, awareness/training, and electronic availability of the policy;and6.4.5
not conflict with any legal provisions and regulations, or policies and rules of the institution.7.
POLICY/RULES DIRECTORY7.1
STADIO must have a Policyand Rules Directorywhich contains all the current policies of the institution.7.2
Overarching accountability for the currency of the Policy and Rules Directoryis as detailed below:7.2.1
Policies relating to Governancefunctions–this is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer,7.2.2
Policies relating to Academic and Academic Administration functions –this is the responsibility of the Chief AcademicOfficer,7.2.3
Policies relating to Financefunctions–this is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer, and7.2.4
Policies relating to institutional Operations –this is the responsibility of the Chief Operations Officer.7.3
The responsibility for maintenance of thePolicy and Rules Directory, ensuring currency and implementing regular policy reviews may be delegated by the accountable functionary.  Such delegation will not obviate the overarching accountability of the key functionary.
5
8.
EFFECTIVE USE OF POLICIES AND RULES8.1
While the purpose of a policy/rule is to promote consistency across STADIO, reasonable flexibility regarding implementation of a policy/rule may, when warranted, be approved by the discretion of the Executive Committee.8.2
Policies and rules of STADIO and any revisions must be communicated to staff of STADIO in a manner that is clear and understandable.  Such communication will be performed by theHead:Executive Support and Governanceas soon as a policy is approved by the Board of STADIO.8.3
Policies and rules must be reviewed at least every three years, but review may take place at shorter intervals as indicated in specific policies and rules.9.
INTERIM POLICY AND RULESARRANGEMENTS9.1
The Board may approve interim policyand rulesarrangements in instances where a rule is required but there is no existing policy in place.9.2
Such arrangement shall remain in place until the development and implementation of the formal policy.9.3
The interim arrangement should not be in place for a period of more than 12 months.9.4
Interim policies will cease to have force and effect once the formal policy is approved.10.
PROCEDURES SUPPORTING POLICIES AND RULES10.1
As far as is reasonably possible, standard operating procedures(SOPs)and processes should not be contained in a policy/ruledocument.10.2
Separate SOPs and process documents should be developed to support the policy/ruleprinciples.  10.3
Where SOPs and process documents are linked to a policy or rule, they must beuploaded to the Policy and Rules Directory under a clear heading STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES AND PROCESSESand linked to the relevant policy.11.
POLICY REVIEW11.1This policy will be reviewed every three years but may be reviewed earlier should a need arise.