EMPLOYEE ASSISTANT PROGRAMME - SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND ALCHOL USE
Reference Number:
HR09
Body responsible for Final Approval:
STADIO (Pty) Ltd Board
Management Approval:
Date of Final Approval:
Date of Implementation:
Revision Date:
November  2022
Previous Revisions:
New Policy
Policy Owner:
Chief Operating Officer
Institutional functionary responsible:
Head: Human Resources
1.
STADIO places a high value on the health and social well-being of its employees and recognises that
there are a number of personal problems which could impact negatively on the employees’ personal
and work lives. STADIO according to its values and ethical behaviour maintains a safe and healthy
working environment for all employees free of the influence of alcohol and drugs in order to uphold
the reputation of the institution and its employees, and to ensure that service is maintained at the
highest possible standard.
Employees who are under the influence of alcohol or drugs or any other substance present safety and
health risks to themselves and their fellow employees and have a detrimental effect upon high
standards of performance and conduct. The provision of employee assistance services endeavours to
establish business benefits, including increased productivity of employees (presenteeism) and
decreased absenteeism. The institution has a vital interest in maintaining an effective and professional
working environment for all its employees.
STADIO’s Employment Assistance Programme (EAP) services include assessments, counselling and
referrals for additional services to employees with personal and work behavioural concerns The
STADIO Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) is available to all staff.
2.
For the purpose of this policy the following definitions shall apply:
Term
Definition
Consultation
Seeking information/advice from an EAP practitioner or the
institution
Counsellor
The individual counsellor/psychologist who has been assigned to
provide a staff member with confidential services related to the
Dependency
The condition of psychological and physical dependence on
substances to be repeated, and compulsive use thereof, with
detrimental effects on the individual and the institution
Employee Assistance
Programme (EAP)
Professional services offered by means of the STADIO Provident
Fund Scheme and/or a STADIO employed counsellor on site.
EAP advisor
A member of the HR Department who is skilled to intervene in a
case of an employee in the workplace needing assistance.
Illegal substances
Excludes the use of controlled substances for which the person
has received a legitimate prescription
Informed permission
An employee has full prior knowledge about the implications of the
content of the agreement for which he gives verbal or written
permission
Management
Person/s responsible for managing and administrating the
department at the highest level
Presumable under the
influence
The person is probably, in the opinion of his/her manager using a
substance to such an extent that:
i.
The individual cannot work safely and productively
ii.
The individual’s physical and mental state is a risk for the
general safety and welfare of the individual, fellow
employees, the institution and the public
iii.
The employee’s blood alcohol level as measured by a
breathalyser, exceeds the allowed limit
Psycho-active substance
Is a chemical substance that acts primarily upon the central
nervous system where it alters brain function, resulting in
temporary changes in perception, mood, consciousness and
behaviour. Including all forms of narcotics, including depressants,
stimulants, hallucinatory and all forms of drugs, as well as dagga.
Not all these substances are restricted to use
Service Provider
A provider that has been engaged by the institution for the
purpose of providing confidential counselling services to individual
staff members through the EAP
Staff member
A person employed by the institution as a continuing or fixed-term
staff member on a full-time or part-time basis
Substance abuse
The use of legal or illegal drugs, controlled medication or alcohol
in such quantities that the individual is judged as ‘presumably
under the influence’
3.
The Employee Assistance Programme Policy is benchmarked against, and should be read in the
context of the relevant legislation underpinning the principles against which institutional policies,
processes and standard operational procedures are developed, implemented and maintained. These
include:
Employment Equity Act No. 55 of 1998
Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995
4.
The Employee Assistance Programme is accessible to all employees of STADIO regardless of their
positions.
5.
The purpose of the EAP policy is to provide:
5.1.
A framework for the effective operation of an employee assistance programme.
5.2.
Guidance to staff when the need to access an EAP programme arises.
5.3.
Constructive assistance in the form of confidential counselling and referrals to every
employee who experiences personal as well as work-related problems.
5.4.
Assistance through referrals to appropriate providers for employees who seek assistance in
overcoming dependency upon, or problems with alcohol, drugs or any other substances.
6.
6.1.
The EAP provided services are available to assist staff who are seeking to address personal
or work-related issues.
6.2.
The aim of the EAP is early identification and provision of assistance to help resolve either
work-related or personal issues. Matters that may be addressed by means of the EAP
include, but are not limited to dealing with:
6.2.1. Work or life changes.
6.2.2. Occupational stress.
6.2.3. Major life events, including births, accidents and deaths.
6.2.4. Health care concerns.
6.2.5. Substance abuse: alcohol, drugs, prescription medication.
6.2.6.
Relationship issues.
6.2.7.
Personal trauma including hijacking, robberies, burglaries.
6.2.8.
Emotional distress.
6.2.9.
Health matters.
6.2.10. Coping or dealing with grief and/or loss.
6.2.11. HIV/AIDS and other dread diseases.
6.2.12.
Family violence.
6.2.13.
Sexual harassment.
6.3.
Student counsellors employed by the institution are for the use of students. However, the
counsellors may also be available for staff counselling. This will be done in accordance to
managements request.
6.4.
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides staff, including managers, access to the
following confidential services:
6.4.1. Face to face, telephonic or external confidential counselling for personal or
work-related issues
6.4.2. Confidential counselling assistance
6.4.3. Support and advice for managers in dealing with issues relating to their support
roles in assisting employees.
7.
7.1.
Self-Referral
An employee through a process of self-realisation recognises that a problem exists and seeks
assistance by consulting the EAP advisor directly. Self-referrals are treated with strict confidentiality
and employees who voluntarily seek assistance, but do not want their managers to know of their
participation, can arrange appointments outside duty hours.
7.2.
Informal Referral
An employee who experiences personal or social problems, and on advice regarding other people,
for example, their manager, a colleague, friend or family seek assistance from the EAP practitioner.
7.3.
Formal Referral
A manager who is concerned about the decline in an employee’s performance, attitude and
behaviour may refer the said employee, with the employee’s consent, to an EAP advisor for
assistance. The manager is required to complete the referral form and submit it to the EAP
practitioner at least two days prior to the interview.
8.
All consultations will be conducted in complete confidence between the staff member and the EAP
counsellor. The institution may obtain statistical data on the broad categories and frequency of
access and use of the EAP programme and providers to ensure that the funding support to the
service is adequately maintained. Such data will not include names of persons using the EAP
services. Informed permission will be granted by the employee as to the purpose of such data
collected by the institution.
9.
9.1.
Funding expenses incurred internally through  STADIO’s internal counsellors will be borne by
the institution.
9.2.
EAP services offered by the company Provident Fund Scheme is a free service offering to a
member However, admission to hospital, admission to a clinic or admission to any facility
will be for the employees personal account.
10.
10.1.
In the case of leave, an employee will use their leave days for consultation (treatment).
10.2.
The ordinary rules in respect of sick leave shall apply should an employee agree to go to a
centre for substance abuse for a period of treatment.
11.
11.1.
In the case of any incident in the workplace which relates to substance abuse, an employee
shall be informed by their manager about the assistance which is available.
11.2.
STADIO encourages employees with dependency problems to approach the relevant
manager or Human Resources department within the institution or an outside counsellor
voluntarily for assistance.
12.
A manager has a responsibility upon identifying any of the following forms of conduct to institute a
referral to a counsellor or EAP practitioner should the following be apparent:
12.1.
Productivity, work attendance and interpersonal relationships are prejudiced by substance
abuse;
12.2.
Action in the workplace pose a safety risk to the employee, management, the institution
and/or the public;
12.3.
The person’s behaviour in an official capacity is detrimental to the institution’s reputation
and good name;
12.4.
An alcohol or drug-related offence is committed which is contrary to the stipulations of the
disciplinary code of the institution.
13.
13.1.
Drinking alcohol on duty will not be tolerated and will be grounds for summary dismissal.
13.2.
Driving a company vehicle under the influence of alcohol, no matter what the circumstances,
will be grounds for summary dismissal.
13.3.
Any use of, sale of, or dealing in illegal drugs will be grounds for summary dismissal.
13.4.
Employees who have been informed by their medical practitioner that their use of a legal
drug may present a safety risk or may interfere in any aspect of their job performance, are
required to report such drug use to their departmental head.
13.5.
Alcohol and drug dependent employees who refuse assistance, who do not cooperate with
the treatment programme as agreed, or who suffer continual relapses, shall face disciplinary
procedures for further alcohol and drug-related offences and/or poor performance in the
workplace.
13.6.
STADIO reserves the right to take disciplinary steps, which may include dismissal for alcohol
and drug-related offences which represent a serious safety risk to the employee concerned,
colleagues or members of the public, and which contravenes the institution’s disciplinary
code.
14.
14.1.
The employees’ treatment programme is agreed upon by the employee and the counsellor
concerned. The manager may be informed about the steps to be followed in the treatment
plan, provided that the employee agrees, and operational requirements are taken into
account.
14.2.
Should all reasonable steps be taken to bring an employee’s work performance up to
standard and/or to end continued substance abuse, the institution shall determine whether
the employee is still able to produce satisfactory work in accordance with his/her contract
and then take the following steps:
14.2.1. Should an employee be unable to produce satisfactory work as a result of
continued substance abuse, the service contract may be terminated due to
disability.
14.2.2. Should an employee still produce satisfactory work despite failure to cooperate
and/or continued unacceptable behaviour due to substance abuse, disciplinary
steps may be taken.
15.
15.1.
In the case of relapse, the following factors may be taken into account to determine
whether further assistance may be rendered and what the nature of such assistance
shall be:
15.5.1. Period since previous admittance for substance abuse
15.5.2. Behaviour within the workplace
15.5.3. The employee’s ongoing support in the treatment programme
15.5.4. Personal and social circumstances
16.
16.1.
Periodic testing
Periodic testing could be done according to occupational health practices.
16.2.
Testing based on reasonable suspicion
16.3.1. Should a manager or any other responsible person, based on observation, suspect
that an employee is under the influence of alcohol or psycho-active substances,
the employee may be requested to take a breathalyser test to establish the alcohol
level in their blood, or an appropriate test for psycho-active substances.
16.3.2. It should be explained to the employee that the test is aimed at affording him/her
the opportunity to refute the allegations against him/her. By refusing to take the
test, the employee is forfeiting the opportunity, and the deduction may be made
that he/she is indeed under the influence of a psycho-active substance. Refer to
Annexure A.
16.3.3. The psycho-active substance abuse form is completed by the manager of the
employee concerned, or a security officer (should the occurrence happen outside
normal work hours), when there is suspicion that the employee may be under the
influence of a psycho-active substance. Refer to Annexure B.
16.3.4. This investigation shall be undertaken in the presence of another manager to serve
as witness if the occurrence happened during work hours. The employee may
request a representative if applicable.
17.
Signs of possible substance
abuse
Detail
Speech
Slurred speech
Incoherence
Slow measured speech
iv.
Unduly talkative
Eyes
Red, swollen
Staring, unseeing
Drooping eyelids
Excessively enlarged or contracted pupils
Co-ordination
Shaky hands
Poor hand and eye co-ordination
Poor judgement (e.g. judgement of time)
Hyperactive
Smell
Breath reeks of alcohol
Walk and balance
Balance is slightly upset
Swaying movements when person stands still
Stumbling
Uncertain on his/her feet
General
Loss of self-control
Uncontrolled laughter or giggling at trivialities
Hyperactive
Fearful, nervous
v.
Aggressive
vi.
Does not remember orders/warnings
vii.
Restlessness
viii.
Nausea/Vomiting
ix.
Exceptionally calm/sleepy
18.
Behaviour
Identification
Steps to be taken
Presumably under the
influence of a psycho-
active substance
Symptoms or
signs of
intoxication
1. Call a witness (another manager or the EAP
Advisor).
2. Consider, with the assistance of the
witness, whether the employee may
possibly be under the influence and
document the symptoms/signs.
3. Should there be reasonable suspicion, the
employee may be requested to take a
breathalyser or blood test.
4. Document the refusal or agreement as well
as the test result in the presence of the
employee, witness or representative.
5. Should the employee, upon observation or
testing, be regarded as being under the
influence, request the employee to leave
the premises.
6. At first and repeated offences, take
appropriate disciplinary action and inform
employee of available help.
Suspected dependence or
psycho-active substance
deteriorating
work
performance
1. Identify and document all incidents of
deteriorating work performance on an
ongoing basis and keep a record.
2. Take appropriate corrective/disciplinary
steps after every incident and explain
consequences.
3. Should none of the aforementioned steps
have the desired effect, document the fact,
repeat the offer of assistance and/or take
appropriate disciplinary action.
Repeated relapses
Take the same appropriate steps as during the
first intervention
19.
Sign/symptom
Attendance
Regular absence
Often absent on Monday/Fridays/Pay-days
Vague medical certificates
Exceptionally high use of sick leave
Punctuality and time-
keeping
Late for work
Sluggish or leisurely time-keeping
Long and frequent visits to the toilet
Attitude
Conflict with colleagues/manager/other persons
Loss of interest in work
Negativity
General behaviour
Overreaction to correction or advice
Constant criticism of others
Drinking at work
Hides alcohol
General appearance
Regular hangovers
Tiredness
Tremors
Reeks of alcohol
Excessive perspiration
Red eyes
Slovenly appearance of body and clothing
Productivity
Deterioration in quality of work
Unreliable
Does not keep to deadlines
Wastes materials
Works in starts and fits
Errors of judgement
Unsatisfactory workmanship
Forgetful/does not follow instructions
x.
Negligence/repeated mistakes
20.
20.1.
In the case of offences relating to substance abuse, the chairman of a hearing or the manager
of an employee may reserve referral to a counsellor with or without certain conditions,
depending on circumstances.
20.2.
Should an employee’s behaviour be such that a disciplinary hearing/meeting is deemed
necessary, the chairman of the hearing or manager (in the case of a disciplinary meeting)
may request a report from the counsellor concerned.
20.3.
It is the responsibility of the chairman or the manager concerned of the disciplinary
hearing/meeting, to ensure that the employee fully understands the implications and
responsibility of cooperation in the treatment programme. Lack of cooperation should be
taken into account in the case of further action with regard to the employee’s behaviour.
20.4.
Voluntary acceptance of professional help without this being initiated by a manager does
not exempt the employee from disciplinary action but shall be taken into account as
extenuating circumstances.
21.
Regular review and amendment of this policy will be done in line with the approved institutional
policies and regulatory requirements. This will take place in consultation with the relevant quality
assurance structures at departmental and institutional level, under the auspices of the official
custodian of this policy, namely the Head: Human Resources.
Annexure A
REQUEST TO TAKE A TEST FOR PSYCHO-ACTIVE SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Employee agreed to take test
Yes
No
Reason for refusal to take the test
Result of breathalyser if applicable
Signature of manager/security who
requested the test
Signature of witness
Signature of employee representative
Signature of employee
Date
Annexure B
PSYCHO-ACTIVE SUBSTANCE ABUSE FORM
Psycho-active substance abuse Form
Name and Surname of employee
Time
Department
Form completed by
Title
Name of witness if during campus
hours
Name of employee representative
Title/designation of employee
representative
Comments on observed behaviour of
employee
Signature of manager/security