RECRUITMENT, SELECTION, PLACEMENT AND INDUCTION POLICY
STADIO is an equal opportunity employer. The institution’s Employment Equity (EE) plan and targets will be considered as part of the recruitment process, aligned to the employment equity strategy. STADIO strives to appoint and develop people with potential at all levels of the business and actively supports the recruitment of people with disabilities, drawing on the best skills available from within the relevant labour market. Candidates will be selected for appointment in accordance with their competence to fulfil the inherent job requirements without regard to arbitrary discrimination factors such as race and gender.
The Recruitment, Selection, Placement and Induction Policy is benchmarked against and should be read in the context of the relevant legislation underpinning the principles against which institutional policies, processes and standard operating procedures are developed, implemented and maintained. These include:
Basic Conditions of Employment Act 75 of 1997
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa 1996
Employment Equity Act, Act No 55 of 1998
Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995, amended 2011.
This policy applies to:
4.1	All permanent vacant positions within STADIO.
4.2	Full-time and part-time employees (half-day and two-third day employees) who are regarded as permanent employees.
4.3	Temporary employees who have applied for permanent vacancies within STADIO.
The purpose of the Recruitment, Selection, Placement and Induction process is to:
5.1	Attract competent, talented individuals to fill vacant positions with the best qualified and experienced candidates.
5.2	Ensure that a fair, transparent and evidence-based process is followed.
5.3	Eliminate bias and prejudice in the recruitment and selection process.
5.4	Comply with all related Labour Legislation.
5.5	Safeguard STADIO against unnecessary litigation expenses.
5.6	Ensure that correct documentation is completed for all candidates and employees.
5.7	Ensure consistency with all employee transfers.
6.1	The business medium for language during the entire recruitment process is English. Where  competence in another language is required as part of the position requirements, part of the interview may be conducted in that language
6.2	Vacancy advertising, application forms, communication during the interview process, employee risk assessments, employment offer letters and contracts of employment will be communicated in English.
7.1	Human Resources is responsible for implementing the Recruitment, Selection, Placement and Induction policy in line with STADIO’s Human Resources strategy.
7.2	Human Resources at a campus level is responsible for implementing the recruitment and selection policy and ongoing advisory support to line managers.
7.3	It is the line manager’s responsibility to ensure compliance with the policy throughout the recruitment and selection process.
8.1	The relevant Selection Committee will endeavour to recruit the most suitable candidate by ensuring that a large enough group of candidates are made available by utilising various platforms and personal contacts in this field, including social media.
8.2	The principle of equal opportunity as defined in the Employment Equity Act should be applied.
8.3	Human resources planning and forecasting , based on business needs and available budget, should be conducted by management before any recruitment action is undertaken.
8.4	A comprehensive job analysis must be undertaken by management before recruitment to ensure the recruitment process is non-discriminatory and takes place according to job-related factors.
8.5	Full job specifications must be identified by management to ensure an accurate match to the job candidate.
8.6	Recruitment must take place in accordance with the needs of the institution as they may arise.
8.7	When recruiting candidates for vacant permanent posts or promotions, STADIO will first consider suitable internal employees for such posts/vacancies.
8.8       STADIO reserves the right not to advertise posts from Grade D4 upwards. These posts may be filled through external recruitment and by headhunting.
8.8	External sources such as employment agencies, headhunting, referrals, professional associations and advertisement may also be utilised to recruit the most suitable candidate.
An authority to recruit form (refer to Annexure A) must be completed and signed off by the relevant line manager for all vacant, new or temporary positions.
The recruitment process will commence once the staff requisition is authorised by the relevant Executive Head in the case of campus positions, and by the relevant Exco member in the case of Head Office staff.
10.1 A job advertisement must indicate the job specifications required for a specific position:
10.1.1	Role title.
Location.
Reporting structure.
Closing date.
Role summary.
10.1.6    Role functions and responsibilities.
10.1.7	 Qualifications.
10.1.8    Experience inherent to the job requirements.
10.2  STADIO’s official logo should be used on all recruitment adverts.
11.1	To ensure confidentiality of candidate information, recruitment and selection decisions are available only to the relevant selection panel and supporting Human Resources team.
All recruitment and selection related information, including the application for a position, interviews and background checks, should not be disclosed to any third party and all information will be handled in line with the Protection of Personal Information Act, Act No. 4 of 2013.
12.1	Based on legislative requirements, the institution must keep a complete set of records of the recruitment and selection of employees. This is especially important should the institution be required to prove non-discrimination against an individual.
12.2	The selection process should be documented as evidence that all selection decisions were based on objective criteria.
12.3 	A complete record of each employee must be kept, including the rationale behind the selection decision. Records should be kept for external candidates who were short-listed but unsuccessful and for employees who apply for a transfer or promotion.
12.4	Records should be kept for a minimum period of one year from the date of making the selection decision.
12.5	Personnel files must be kept in archives for five years after termination of the employment contract and may after that be destroyed.
13.1	All vacancy advertisements must be sent out internally within the institution. It is the Human Resource’s Department’s responsibility to convey current STADIO vacancies to the attention of current employees.
13.2	The Human Resources department is responsible for ensuring that all external adverts for vacancies are also placed on the company’s website.
13.3	Communication regarding new appointments, transfers, promotions and terminations of employees is distributed by Human Resources.
14.1	STADIO reserves the right to advertise vacancies externally without the position being advertised internally.
14.2	All external adverts must be placed on the STADIO website.
14.3	Employment agencies may be contacted should other sourcing methods prove unsatisfactory.
14.4	The job title listing will provide guidance as to the categorising of positions into those that qualify as scarce skills. Positions categorised as scarce skills can be filled using a recruitment agency where necessary. For the use of agencies outside of this categorisation, the Executive Head or Exco member, as relevant, and the Head of Human Resource’s approval will be required before the solicitation of candidates.
15.1	The Head: Human Resources, in consultation with EXCO and the Human Resources Committee, is responsible to set up one  Employment Equity Plan for STADIO.
15.2	The Employment Equity Act is intended to lead to representative diversity at all levels. Hence, the need to rectify previous imbalances through various activities, including recruitment and selection practices and procedures. Whilst STADIO’s selection procedures aim at treating all candidates fairly and equally, previously disadvantaged groups, i.e. South African Africans, Indians, Coloureds, women and persons with disabilities, will play a significant role in filling vacancies in accordance with the STADIO transformation strategy and applicable targets.
15.3	People with disabilities on short-lists will be given preference above other candidates in line with STADIO’s employment equity (EE) strategy around disability as long as it would not impose an unjustifiable hardship on the business of STADIO.
15.4	All appointments will be made in accordance with the institution’s employment equity strategy.
All candidates must be given a fair opportunity for selection, and all parties involved in the recruitment process must ensure that recruitment and selection procedures are substantively and procedurally fair.
Substantive Fairness
16.1.1	The criteria for job performance must be clear and relevant to the inherent requirements of the position being offered.
16.1.2	Recruitment and selection techniques utilised must be relevant to the job-related criteria.
16.1.3	A candidate’s ability and potential to do the job should be considered. Whilst decisions will be made partly on qualifications and experience, it is important that a candidates’ capacity to acquire within a reasonable time the ability to do the job is also considered in terms of the provisions of the Employment Equity Act.
Procedural Fairness
16.2.1	Unfair exclusion or inclusion of specific candidates or groups of candidates should not occur. Equal opportunity of access to positions should prevail and be ensured.
16.2.2	Candidates should be interviewed fairly and objectively, bearing in mind the needs of the job and the business unit.
16.2.3	Interview and selection processes should support and result in fair selection decisions.
17.1	Nepotism refers to the appointment of a relative or family member where the appointment is based on favouritism and preferential treatment.
17.2	The appointment of a relative will only be considered where the recruitment procedure has been adhered to, and the relative or family member/candidate is deemed the best person for the job, based on the inherent requirements of the position.
17.3	Appointments of a relative or a family member will only be made once authorisation is obtained from the Head: Human Resources.
17.4	In instances such as making decisions regarding personnel matters, e.g. appointments, promotion, retention, or salary of another member of the same family or extended family, the family member who is a decision-maker will recuse themselves when such decisions are being made.
17.5	No exception will be made when one family member is responsible for supervising, directing, evaluating, or influencing the evaluation of the work of another member of the same family or extended family.
17.6	No appointments will be made in other situations that may exist that place members of the same family or extended family in circumstances of actual or reasonably foreseeable conflict between the interests of the institution and the interests of the family member/s.
18.1	Internal transfers of employees will be allowed provided that the individual has been in their current position for at least one year.
18.2	Employees who consider a transfer before the one year in their current position are required to obtain consent from their direct line manager before applying for vacant positions within STADIO.
18.3	If a transfer is approved, it must be signed off by the Executive Head or Exco member, as relevant, and the Head: Human Resources.
18.4	The needs of the business and the employee's needs in respect of career development are to be considered when considering internal movement initiatives.
18.5	Exceptions to the one-year timeframe can be made where the individual is of strategic resourcing interest to STADIO and with relevant management consent to the movement.
18.6	Transfers should be affected from the first (1st) of each month.
18.7	Should a transfer be approved, the transfer date of the employee will be on the mutual agreement of the managers concerned. The employee may be required to serve one months’ notice before the transfer is affected and may need to perform a dual role for a period as agreed by the line managers concerned.
18.8	Salaries offered to staff members during internal transfers, whether a lateral move or increase, is at the Executive Head's discretion.
18.9	The employee file containing all personnel information must be requested by the receiving business unit before the transfer.
19.1	Job rotation refers to transferring a permanent staff member to a different position within STADIO for a predetermined period.
19.2	Job rotation is intended to provide staff with exposure to different areas of the business thereby increasing knowledge.
19.3	Consideration of job rotation should form part of the staff performance development process.
19.4	The rotation period, salary and position must be discussed and signed off by the employee and the Executive Head.
19.5	Job rotation opportunities are only applicable to permanent staff.
20.1	Selection consists of the processes involved in choosing from the available applicants a suitable candidate to fill a post by considering the most effective way to identify and assess candidates.
20.2	Placement practices within the organisation should be based on factors such as a forecast of the candidate’s expected future performance, as well as the employee’s performance since appointment, the individual’s own preferences for career development, how they see the status of the current job, opportunities for promotion, and opportunities to change jobs within the organisation.
20.3	Placement refers to rating job-related skills and the candidate's fit with the department by matching applicant data with the skills and qualities identified during the selection process. Placement is based on selection decisions and should be guided by the candidate's predicted skill in doing the job.
20.4	Organisational politics, discrimination and nepotism will not be tolerated during the  the selection process.
20.5	Appointments should only be made based on the match between a candidate’s potential and the job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, colour or religion.
20.6	 A shortlist of suitable candidates should be afforded an interview opportunity.
20.7	Where applicable or deemed necessary, the applicant may be required to undergo a performance test and/or psychometric testing relating to the job description.
20.8	Only short-listed candidates will be contacted.
20.9	The unsuccessful short-listed applicant(s) will be informed in writing.
21.1	Candidates are required to submit a detailed curriculum vitae, a motivation letter and an application form (refer to Annexure B) to the Human Resources department, who will be responsible for initial screening.
21.2	To be considered for non-academic positions at STADIO, all applicants must have a minimum Grade 12 or equivalent National Qualifications Framework (NQF) Level 4 qualification.
22.1	Short-listed candidates who meet the inherent requirements of a position are to be contacted by the relevant human resources department for an interview.
22.2	Interviews and final selection will be carried out by the human resources department together with line management.
22.4	Interviews are conducted using the ‘Targeted Selection’ method of interviewing, whereby candidates are explicitly assessed on the inherent requirements identified for each position within STADIO and on which the performance management system is based.
22.5	During the interview process, a candidate’s potential to acquire and develop the necessary experience within a reasonable period should be considered.
22.6	The selection panel members are required to declare any conflict of interest before starting the recruitment process.
22.7     Responsibilities of the Selection Panel
22.7.1   Where pre-screening (the short-listing process) takes place based on
empirical information (preferably contained in the job description, but where
necessary, also in other documentation), the interview situation is utilised to
arrive at a qualitative assessment of the candidates. The object of the
exercise is to evaluate the expertise and competencies of the candidates by
means, among other things, of a questionnaire. The process must be
unimpeachable, objective and accountable. In addition, it is the responsibility
of the Panel to –
22.7.1.1 compile a questionnaire directed towards testing a candidate’s skills
and knowledge of the post applied for, competencies and KPAs;
22.7.1.2 expose all candidates to the same questions or testing/evaluating,
although follow-up questions may be inevitable depending on
candidates' responses;
22.7.1.3 set norms for evaluation (allocation of points) in accordance with
standard practice.
22.7.2 The independent evaluations of individual panel members are to be recorded and these inputs are to be processed as a recommendation of the Panel as an entity.
22.7.3 The decision concerning the most suitable candidate to be recommended for appointment/promotion/transfer to the post must be based on merit as well as the employment equity targets of the campus. However, candidates with the “potential” or ability to develop into the position, may be considered by the Selection Panel as one of the facets in their horizontal comparison of candidates, provided that such “potential” is assessed to be realisable within a reasonable timeframe as determined by the Panel, with reference to the position, demands and needs of the position and the employer. The candidate who has scored the highest points in the selection process may thus be passed over, and a candidate with a relatively lower score may be regarded as the most suitable candidate.
22.7.4 Interviewing can be employed in conjunction with role-playing, testing, skills techniques, case studies, presentations etc., in which event, these techniques will be culture and bias-free insofar possible.
22.7.5  When a candidate is referred by a participating recruitment agency, the protocol is for all communication with the candidate (for example, the invitation to attend a selection interview) to be forwarded via such agency and not directly with the candidate.
22.7.6  All steps and processes must be fully documented. An applicant has the right to enquire as to why their candidature had not been short-listed. Should the application come under review, only factually documented evidence and other reliable and relevant evidence would be considered.
23.1	Employee risk assessments will include reference checks, document verification, e.g. qualification and employment checks, credit and criminal checks where required.
23.2	Checks undertaken must be relevant to the inherent requirements of the position for which the candidate is being considered.
23.3	Competency-based reference checks will be used to verify facts and will be conducted with the candidate's written consent after the interview.
23.4	A minimum of two reference checks must be obtained from recent and current employers before an offer of employment being made to a candidate.
23.5	STADIO reserves the right to withdraw the offer should the reference checking process undertaken prove unsatisfactory. Candidates must be informed of the above process during the interview process and in the offer letter.
23.6	A minimum of two reference checks must be obtained before confirming an internal appointment/ transfer. At a minimum, one of these must be completed with the employee’s current direct line manager.
23.7	Based on the inherent job requirements, criminal, qualification and credit checks should be carried out before appointment in accordance with South African Law and STADIO policy.
24.1		Psychometric assessments may be conducted for candidates who have been short-listed after the interview process is completed.
24.2		Assessment results remain confidential, and feedback is integrated with other information sources and is linked directly to the inherent requirements of the job.
24.3		Assessment reports should not be given to candidates.
24.4		The Human Resources Department is responsible for the scheduling of all assessments.
24.5		The use of psychometric or other testing must be consistent, objective and credible to avoid disappointment and ensure equity of the process. If one candidate is tested, all the other candidates on the short-list must be tested, unless reasonable grounds exist.
24.6		Assessment tools selected for senior and executive positions must be approved by the Head: Human Resources.
24.7		No testing is permitted to ascertain the HIV status of a candidate to offer the position to the applicant.
The relevant Human Resources department is responsible for providing a letter of offer after the interview, and employee risk assessment process is completed, and a suitable candidate is selected.
Letters of appointment need to be signed by Executive Heads for all new appointments at a Campus level. The relevant Exco member must sign letters of appointment for Head Office positions.
25.2	All job offers will be made in writing and must be signed by candidates who have been successful in specific positions.
25.3	The period of validity of the offer will be specified on the letter of offer. Job offers are valid for no longer than seven working days.
25.4	The signed letter of offer must be placed in the employee’s personnel file.
Standardised regret letters must be utilised for declining unsuccessful candidates.
26.2	Regret letters must be retained on file for a minimum period of one year.
PRE-EMPLOYMENT
Specific documentation is required before the employment of a permanent employee.
Pre-employment checklist:
27.1.1	 Authority to Recruit (ATR) form signed by authorised signatories.
27.1.2	 Job advert.
27.1.3	 STADIO application form completed and signed.
27.1.4	 Curriculum vitae.
27.1.5	 Target selection interview responses.
27.1.6	 Certified copy of identification document.
27.1.7	 Certified copies of qualification certificates.
27.1.8	 Certified copies of original professional membership certificates.
27.1.9	 Copy of most recent payslip.
27.1.10 Certified copy of valid work permit (where applicable).
Copy of drivers licence (where applicable).
Background checks:
27.2.1	 Two reference checks
27.2.2	Qualification checks
27.2.3	Credit checks (where applicable)
Criminal check (where applicable).
27.3	Psychometric Assessments (where applicable).
27.4	A medical report certifying that a candidate living with a disability/disabilities is able to perform the work required.
27.5	Signed letter of offer.
27.6	Transfer form (where applicable).
27.8	Declaration of outside interest form (where applicable)
27.9     Valid work permit (where applicable)
28.1	The Human Resources Department is responsible for providing a contract of employment to employees within the first week of employment.
28.2	All employment contracts must be made in writing, signed by the authorised signatory and the employee.
28.3	Each page of the contract of employment must be initialled by the authorised signatory and the employee.
28.4	Conditions of employment are specified in the contract of employment. The employee is referred to the complete spectrum of the institution’s policies and procedures available at a central repository.
28.5	The signed contract of employment letter must be placed in the employee’s personnel file and a copy provided to the employee.
29.1	Employees are required to sign a job description for their respective positions upon commencement of employment.
29.2	Job descriptions must be reviewed annually in November during the performance-based discussion process. Any changes must be documented and signed off by the employee and line manager facilitated through the Human Resources structures.
29.3	The signed job description must be placed in the employee’s personnel file and a copy provided to the employee.
29.4	It is the responsibility of the relevant line managers to ensure that job descriptions are updated should the role requirements of the position change. The revised job description must be signed by the employee and Human Resources to ensure the document is placed in the personnel file.
POST-EMPLOYMENT
30.1	Post-employment checklist:
30.1.1.	Acceptance of letter of appointment signed and initialled by STADIO authorised signatories and the employee
30.1.2	Signed job description
30.1.3	Pension/Provident Fund Expression of Wish Form
30.1.4	Certified copies of beneficiary ID's
30.1.5	Employee banking details
30.1.6	Medical Aid Membership Form (where applicable) or proof of alternate Medical Aid Membership
30.1.7		SARS Tax Reference Number
30.1.8	Signed contract of employment
30.1.9	Signed job description.
31.1	Placement refers to rating job-related skills and the candidate's fit with the department/team by matching applicant data with the skills and qualities identified during the selection process.
31.2	All new employees will be placed on a three-month probationary period. This enables the manager to assess whether the employee meets the requirements of the position and is compatible with the environment and the employee to determine if they enjoy the work environment and opportunities provided by the institution.
31.3	Probation only applies to new employees and not in respect of promotions or internal transfers.
31.4	The line manager must set and communicate the required standard against which the employee’s performance is measured. The Head of Campus is to ensure that the probationary process is followed.
31.5	The line manager must provide regular feedback to the employee.
31.6	Based on gaps identified, appropriate instruction, training, guidance or counselling should take place.
31.7	The Executive Head, together with the Head: Human Resources will approve the decision to terminate the services of a probationer. This decision is based on all the requirements for procedural and substantive fairness have been followed
31.8	A dismissal on procedurally and substantive fair grounds can take place at any stage of the probationary period, and the level of substantive fairness for probationers must be seen as the same as that for permanent employees.
31.9	A probationer has a legitimate expectation of permanent employment, subject to the probation process, which will materialise where the probation period expires without specific and written indications to the contrary.
31.10	In the first week of employment, the line manager must discuss the probationer’s responsibilities. This involves clarifying the Key Performance Areas (objectives and inherent requirements) in terms of the performance management process.
31.11	In the second month of employment, the line manager must facilitate a review discussion with the probationer where applicable.
31.12	A copy of the performance worksheet that refelcts on the completion of the three-month probation period must be sent to the relevant human resources department for retention.
31.13	Should performance gaps be identified, a follow-up date must be set. If it is evident that the employee cannot fulfil the performance criteria, the incapacity procedure must be followed.
31.14	In the event of misconduct regarding work habits like sleeping on duty, poor timekeeping, absenteeism, etc., the disciplinary procedure must be followed.
32.1	An acting allowance is only applicable should an employee assume duties that are at a level above the normal grade of responsibility.
32.2	The employee must act in the relevant position for a minimum of 2 weeks to be considered for an acting allowance.
32.3	Where an employee performs duties at the same level of responsibility as the employees’ current role, the allowance amount will be at the line manager's discretion.
33.1	Candidates required to travel for recruitment and selection purposes at STADIO may be eligible for assistance with travel expenses.
33.2	Payment of travel for recruitment and selection purposes will be at management discretion, subject to approval from the Executive Head.
33.3	Air travel tickets, kilometre details and original itemised receipts will be required to reimburse the candidate.
34.1	Internal candidates requested by the institution to relocate to assume appointment at an alternate STADIO Campus may be eligible for assistance with relocation expenses. This may also apply to new employees, where the skill is scarce, and the employee is required to relocate, and may also apply in situations where an employee is promoted or transferred to a different campus.
34.2    The relocation package will be determined and reviewed annually by Exco.
34.3	Approval of payment of relocation costs is at the discretion of the relevant Exco member in the case of Head Office positions and the relevant Executive Head in the case of Campus positions.
34.4	Should an employee resign within one year of relocation, they will be required to repay a pro-rated amount, calculated as follows: Relocation amount x number of months short of one year (12 months), divided by 12 months.
The cost of external recruiting is budgeted for at the beginning of the financial year.
35.1	The recruitment budget should be monitored monthly, and expenses in excess of the budget should be approved by the Executive Head prior to commencing with the external recruitment process.
Employees are required to provide for their Medical Aid
The employer may pay the medical aid premium on behalf of the employee (should the employee request this) for a tax benefit accruing to the employee
37.1	The Human Resources department ensures that the new staff member is fully inducted towards the relevant STADIO requirements and facilities before, or upon official commencement of regular duties.
37.2	Responsibility for the induction and onboarding rests with the relevant department and Human Resources.
37.3	The induction of a newly appointed employee should follow the procedure outlined below:
37.3.1	Inform the employee of the date of induction programme before them taking up the position. Attendance at the induction programme is compulsory.
37.3.2	Inform all staff who need to know about the appointment.
37.3.3	Allocate working space, ensuring it is clean, tidy and as welcoming as circumstances will allow.
37.3.4	Appoint and brief someone to act as guide and mentor during the first few weeks. It is the responsibility of the managers of each department to ensure that staff in their departments are adequately mentored and to ensure that all institutional policies and relevant processes are adhered to by their staff.
37.3.5	In academic departments, the role functions of the module coordinators are incorporated in this responsibility
37.4	An induction programme must be formalised and implemented within the first five days of the new employee's arrival or as soon as possible. This should include aspects such as:
37.4.1		Tour of the facility.
37.4.2	Introduction to all staff.
37.4.3	Introduction to students (if applicable).
37.4.4	Contract of employment.
37.4.5	Expectations of management.
37.4.6	Performance management requirements.
37.4.7	General overview of the organisation.
37.4.8	Introduction to the business philosophy/vision/mission of the organisation.
37.4.9	Exposure to procedures and policies of the organisation.
37.4.10	Specific rules and regulations unique to the organisation.
37.4.11	Employee rights, privileges and responsibilities.
37.4.12	Personal tasks and responsibilities.
Regular review and amendment of this policy will be done in line with the approved institutional policies and regulatory requirements. This will occur in consultation with the relevant quality assurance structures at departmental and institutional level, under the auspices of the the Head: Human Resources.
N.B. This Authority to Recruit-form (ATR) must be completed for any new appointment or replacement. The line manager responsible must complete the ATR form with the required information. The ATR must then be submitted to the relevant MANCO member for approval. Once approved by the MANCO member, the form must be sent to the Head of Campus/Executive Head, who then hands the document to HR. Then only can HR commence with the recruitment process, and an appointment is made.
No appointments will be made without proper prior approval procedures being adhered to.
SUBMITTED BY:
__________________________________		_____________________
Signature: Relevant Line Manager				DATE:
AUTHORISED BY:
_______________________________	             	_____________________
Signature: Relevant Budget Holder				DATE:
ACCEPTED IN HR:
Signature: 						DATE:
ADVERT SIGNED OFF:
_________________________________                         ______________________
Signature: Line Manager		                          DATE:
Date advert placed: ________________________________
Closing date of advert: ______________________________
Name: ………………………………………………………………
Surname: ………………………………………………………………
Post applying for: ………………………………………………………….
Do you meet ALL the requirements indicated in the advertisement?  YES / NO
If NO, please indicate which requirements are not met:
Provide a summary of why you are optimally suited for the position:
Based on the required competencies, knowledge and skills indicated in the advertisement, are there any areas you will describe as ‘areas of development’ for you?
Have you included the following:
Declaration:
I hereby declare that all information provided in this application is true and correct and within my knowledge and belief, save where expressly stated to the contrary.
……………………………………..				……………………………