Version: 23 May 2023
Reference Number:
RES_P002
Body responsible for Final Approval:
Board
Management Approval:
CEO Signature
Date of Final Approval:
23 May 2023
Date of Implementation:
1 June 2023
Version:
2.1
Revision Date:
1 February 2026
Previous Revisions:
23 February 2023
Policy Owner:
Chief Academic Officer
Institutional functionary responsible:
Dean: Research, Internationalisation and
Community Engagement
2
Table of Contents
1.
Introduction
3
2. Definitions
4
3. Purpose
5
4. Rights and Responsibilities of STADIO in enabling Ethical Research
5. Rights and Responsibilities of Researchers at STADIO
6
6. Responsibilities of Supervisors
9
7. Responsibilities of Research Ethics Working Groups and Committees
10
8. Rules
9. Constitution
10. Oversight
11
12
1.1
The Policy is based on the vision of STADIO: To be a leading Higher Education Institution, offering
qualifications aligned with the needs of societies, students and the world of work.
1.2
The Research Ethics Policy ensures, assures, and protects the rights and integrity of students,
participants, respondents, and the institution.
1.3
STADIO endorses the Statement on Ethical Research and Scholarly Publishing Practices jointly issued by
ASSAf, CHE, DHET, NRF and USAf1 .
1.4
STADIO follows a centralised, risk-based research ethics review model.
1.5
A Senate Research Ethics Committee (SREC), is responsible for ensuring research ethics and the
management thereof across all the Schools.
1.6
The SREC promotes ethical research by providing strategic direction to Senate,  the relevant Research
Ethics Working Groups and the STADIO Ethics Review Committee (ERC).
1.7
The SREC considers the ethical implications of  high-risk, non-health human participant research,
applications elevated to it for action or opinion (including appeals) and approves these studies in
compliance with the Policy on Research Ethics and Standard Operating Procedures.
1.8
The Honours Working Group, and
& Doctoral Working Group  are responsible for reviewing
negligible to medium risk student research ethics applications, while the Ethics Review Committee is
responsible for reviewling negligle to medium applications by staff members. These structures report to the
SREC. Refer to Appendix A for the reporting structure.
1 ASSAf, CHE, DHET, DST, NRF & USAf. (2019) Statement on Ethical Research and Scholarly
Publishing Practices. (2019). Available from https://www.sajs.co.za/article/view/7675
2.
Ethics review is an objective appraisal of the effect of the proposed research on the wellbeing of potential
participants, animals, the environment, institutions, collectivities and communities by an established
Ethics Review Committee or Working Groups for Postgraduate Studies and staff research.
2.2
Gatekeepers are persons who by the right of their position of authority are recognised as a channel of
access to a research site and/or participant.
2.3
Health research includes any research that contributes to knowledge of:
•
biological, clinical, psychological, or social  processes in humans;
improved methods for the provision of health services;
human pathology;
the causes of disease;
effects of the environment on the human body;
development of new applications of pharmaceuticals, medicines and related substances; and
the development of new applications of health technologies to improve health and health care2;
2.4
Human participant is a living person about whom a researcher obtains data through intervention or
interaction with the person or using her/his identifiable information. However, this definition may be
extended for this policy to protect the rights of deceased persons3;
2.5
Research is a systematic investigation aimed at the development of, or contribution to, generalizable or
transferable knowledge;
2.6
Researchers refer to permanently appointed STADIO staff, staff members on a contract of less than three
years tasked with conducting research and students registered for postgraduate studies at STADIO;
Vulnerable participants include children (i.e. those individuals under the age of 18 years), the elderly,
pregnant women, people with a cognitive or mental impairment, prisoners or people on parole, students,
people living with HIV/AIDS, people in dependent relationships, persons with disabilities, socio-
economically disadvantaged people, indigenous people and indigents.
2  Definition according to the National Health Act, 61 of 2003 (p.6/7)
3  Definition according to the Department of Health, Government Gazette, No. 38000 (2014:5)
3.
3.1
The STADIO Policy on Research Ethics aims to encourage:
3.1.1
the existence of an ethical and scientific intellectual culture among STADIO's staff and students;
3.1.2
protection of the rights and interests of human participants, institutions, communities and the environment.
This is particularly important where the information that has been gathered has the potential to invade the
privacy and dignity of participants and third parties, and where participants and third parties are vulnerable
owing to their youth, disability, gender, age, poverty, disease, ignorance or powerlessness; and
3.1.3
researchers' understanding of their responsibilities in conducting ethical research.
4.
4.1
STADIO should promote compliance with the Policy on Research Ethics and take appropriate steps when
this policy is breached.
4.2
As a rule, all intellectual property resulting from research conducted under the auspices of STADIO vests in
the institution.
4.3
STADIO should make the necessary resources available to encourage sound research ethics governance and
the promotion of ethical research.
4.4
Ethics approval will not be granted retrospectively.
4.5
Health and animal research conducted by STADIO researchers should receive ethics approval from a
Research Ethics Review Committee registered with the National Health Research Ethics Council to comply
with section 73 of the National Health Act 61 of 2003.
4.6
The following research is exempted from full review by a Research Ethics Review Committee or Working
Group:
research that relies exclusively on the review of materials available in the public domain and/or
information accessible through legislation or regulation;
research that relies exclusively on the secondary use of anonymous information or anonymous
human biological material, except for the review of archived materials that are confidential,
research of closed media sources and research involving the analysis of institutional statistics
pertaining to employees, students, service providers and users.
4.7
STADIO is accountable only for research that has been conducted in accordance with the Policy on
Research Ethics.
4.8
STADIO promotes the following four internationally recognised moral principles of ethics as bases for
research:
autonomy (research should respect the autonomy, rights and dignity of research participants);
beneficence (research should make a positive contribution towards the welfare of people);
non-maleficence (research should not cause harm to the research participant(s) or people in
general);
justice (the benefits and risks of research should be fairly distributed among people).
5.
5.1
Researchers have the right to academic freedom.
5.2
Research ethics applications submitted to the Honours or Masters & Doctoral Working Groups must be
accompanied by the signature of the supervisor
5.3
It is the responsibility of the researcher to ensure that he or she does not undertake research without ethics
approval.
5.4
Researchers have a right and a duty to make all necessary efforts to bring the research and its findings or
results to the public domain in an appropriate manner using appropriate and acceptable forums and at an
appropriate time. The publishing of research findings should be done in a manner that will not harm
research participants or their communities.
5.5
Researchers may not commit plagiarism, piracy, falsification or the fabrication of results at any stage of
the research.
5.6
Researchers must acknowledge, declare and indicate how they will mitigate real or perceived conflicts of
interest.
7
5.7
Researchers may be required to report regularly to the relevant Research Ethics Working Group.
5.8
Any researcher who experiences unexpected adverse events or makes changes to the research procedures
that will increase the risks of harm to the participants should inform the relevant Research Ethics Working
Group.
5.9
In the event of a researcher contravening the Policy on Research Ethics, it will be investigated by the
relevant Research Ethics Working Group and the findings reported to the SREC for decision-making.
5.10
STADIO supports Open Access to science and research. Researchers should ensure the protection of the
interests of co-researchers and participants, including the participants' right to privacy and confidentiality,
when sharing data or making it public in any form.
5.11
The publishing of research findings should be done in a manner that will not harm research participants,
their communities and/or institutions.
5.12
Research results should be reported irrespective of whether they support or contradict the expected
outcome(s).
5.13
Researchers should ensure that the personal information of participants is only used for the agreed research
purposes with the participants and that it is adequately protected to prevent possible loss, damage and/or
unauthorized access as required by the Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 (POPIA). They
should never expose such participants and institutions to procedures or risks not directly attached to the
research project or its methodology.
5.14
The Request for Information under the Promotion of Access to Information Act 2 of 2000 should be
followed if a research participant or researcher requests access to the records of personal information
processed by STADIO for research purposes.
5.15
Research and the pursuit of knowledge should not, in themselves, be regarded as
the supreme goal at the expense of the rights of participants and institutions.
5.16
Collaborative research involving human participants must not commence without ethics approval by the
Ethics Review Committee (ERC) of all collaborating institutions. This requirement may be waivered by the
SREC if the local host institution's REC is registered with the National Research Ethics Review Council or
the national host institution adheres to minimum research ethics standards comparative to those set out in
the STADIO Policy on Research Ethics.
8
5.17
The relevant data protection requirements of jurisdictions that has data protection laws such as the
European Union should be considered for the processing of personal information of researchers and
participants and requirements should be included in the collaborative agreements.
5.18
Sharing personal information across borders to other researchers in other countries must meet the
requirements of transborder information flows of the Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013 to
uphold substantially similar lawful processing or consent conditions.
5.19
Autonomy requires that individuals' participation should be freely given, based on informed consent and for
a specific purpose, as required by the Personal Information Act 4 of 2013. Direct or indirect coercion, as
well as undue inducement of people in the name of research should be avoided.
5.20
The researcher should ensure that participants  give their consent in writing and preferably accompanied by
their signature. They, in turn, should be given written information containing adequate details of the
research, including any risks associated with the study. If participants choose not to provide their consent in
writing, consent may be recorded verbally, provided that verbal consent can be linked to the individual
providing such verbal consent. For example, where a participant is illiterate, consent should be obtained in
the presence of a literate witness who should verify and sign a document stating that informed consent had
been given. Where the research is done on-line or electronically, informed consent can be obtained
electronically on condition that reasonable steps are in place to protect the identity of the participant.
5.21
Researchers should treat research participants as unique human beings within the context of their
community systems and should respect what could be traditionally sacred and secret. Research should
preferably be undertaken with, the members of an identified community or communities rather than merely
about such community(ies). In some situations, the consent of "gatekeepers" may have to be obtained in
addition to that of research participants.
5.22
It is the responsibility of the primary researcher to ensure compliance with the research policy/directives of
gatekeepers or organizational structures.
5.23
Criteria for the selection of research participants should be fair, unbiased as well as being scientific. Easily
accessible individuals or groups should not be inordinately burdened with repeated demands on their time
and knowledge by the researcher.
5.24
Researchers should ensure that the actual benefits to be derived by the
participants, society or environment from the research clearly outweigh any possible risks, and that
participants, researchers and the environment are subjected only to those risks that are clearly necessary
for the conduct of the research. Researchers should ensure that these risks are assessed and that adequate
precautions are taken to minimize and mitigate risk.
5.25
Reasonable steps should be taken to prevent harm (physical, psychological, social,
legal, political and/or spiritual), injury or loss of opportunity to participants, researchers and the
environment. If harm, injury or loss of opportunity should occur, it should be dealt with in accordance with
the relevant policy and/or legislative frameworks.
5.26
Demographic information such as race or gender should not be used in research to discriminate or cause
loss of social standing for participants.  If these variables are required, it must be aligned to the aim and
objectives of the research.
5.27
Careful consideration should be given by researchers and Research Ethics Working Groups regarding the
appropriateness of proposed financial or other inducements to research participants, whether children or
adults, parents or guardians of children, or community gatekeepers.
5.28
Reimbursement of expenses (e.g. transport costs, meals) or compensation for the time or effort expended or
any opportunity that may be lost is allowed, on condition that all participants are offered similar
reimbursement and that such reimbursement is only aimed at recompensing the participants.
5.29
Researchers should preserve research records for a minimum of fifteen years after the submission of the
report or the results.
5.30
Researchers should take reasonable technical and operational steps to ensure that research records are
stored in such a manner as to protect confidentiality of records and the anonymity of participants.
5.31
In the event of a data breach of personal information of research participants, the notification and
communication process as outlined by the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) should be
followed.
6.
6.1
Supervisors should promote their students' adherence to the Policy on Research Ethics and criteria
stipulated in the ethics approval documentation.
6.2
Supervisors are responsible to oversee the ethical conduct of research by students under their supervision
and should provide them with the necessary guidance during the research ethics application process.
6.3
Supervisors must be suitably qualified to provide the necessary guidance to students and they should
produce evidence of appropriate research ethics training, refreshed at least every third year.
7.
7.1
The STADIO Research Ethics Working Groups are responsible for independent and non-biased reviews of
the ethical risk related to  postgraduate and staff research within the institution. The Chairs of the
Working Groups report monthly to the STADIO Research Ethics Committee (SREC).
7.2
Research Ethics Working Groups are responsible for reviewing the research ethics of every research
project before the commencement of data collection and for ensuring the regular monitoring of any risk
that may be related to ongoing research.
7.3
The Research Ethics Working Groups are further responsible for acting in the interests of potential
research participants, affected communities and organizations that participate in research.
7.4
These Groups and will maintain  records of research proposals that have been considered, including those
approved by ethics committees of other institutions and professional bodies. The Working Groups may
consulty external experts to assist in the evaluation and screening of research applications related to the
various ethical rislks that may arise from the proposed research
7.5
The Ethics Review Committee reports on a quaterly basis to the SREC, which in turn reports to the
Senate RICE Committee.
8.
8.1
The Ethics Review Committee (ERC) and Working Groups (WG)
8.1.1
Members will address matters put to the ERC and WG in a non-biased manner, upholding the
institution's integrity.
8.1.2
All applications to a  Working Group must be addressed with the knowledge and supporting
documents of relevant individuals.
8.1.3
Assessments and recommendations should be based on merit.
8.1.4
Researchers will have the opportunity to approach a committee with a reasonable and
justifiable query in respect of any decision of the SREC, ERC or Working Group.
8.2
Submission for research ethics review
8.2.1
Applications will be pre-screened for submission to the Research Ethics Working Groups. The
Working groups and ERC will convene monthly, or according to need, to evaluate ethics
applications.
8.2.2
Ethical approval forms (Annexure B) must accompany applications together with supporting
documents. Supporting documents should include consent forms to be signed by participants.
8.2.3
Supervisor recommendations, where relevant, should accompany applications.
8.3
Transgression and Ethical Misconduct
8.3.1
A researcher must be informed in writing of any transgression, and an enquiry will be
undertaken by assigned Committee or Working Group.
8.3.2
The rights of the individuals and disciplinary procedure must be made available to the relevant
individuals.  Transgressions may result in disciplinary sanction in terms of the Students' and
Employee Disciplinary Code.
9.
9.1
The SREC is chaired by the Dean: Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement.
9.2
The SREC is composed of at least nine members as set out in the SREC Charter and Code of Conduct.
9.3
Each Research Ethics Working Groups is chaired by a senior academic with a PhD and a substantial
research background and adequate, relevant training in research ethics..
9.4
Research Ethics Working Groups are composed of at least four members of the academic staff who have
a minimum of a Masters qualification (NQF level9) and adequate training in ethical applications and
reviews.
9.5
Members may serve for a three-year term of office, renewed once. Should a member resign, the SREC
must invite nominations and make the necessary  appointments  based on 9.4.
9.6
The Ethics Review Committee (ERC) should comprise a minimum of five members: a Chairperson, the
Chairs of each of the Working Groups, and a secretary or administrative support.
10.
10.1
The SREC is accountable to the SENATE Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement
(RICE) Committee.
10.2
The ERC, Honours WG and M&D WG report quarterly to the SREC.
10.3
Complaints and objections by staff, students and supervisors must be forwarded to the Stadio RICE
Committee for action.