RESEARCH FRAMEWORK POLICYReference Number:RES_P003Body responsible for Final Approval:BoardManagement Approval:CEO SignatureDate of Final Approval:24 February 2023Date of Implementation:1 April 2023Version2.0Revision Date:1 February 2026Previous Revisions:2020Policy Owner:Chief Academic OfficerInstitutional functionary responsible:Dean: Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement1
11 The Dean: RICE is also responsible for postgraduate Masters (dissertation) and Doctoral (dissertation)
studies.
2
TABLE OF CONTENTSTable of Contents21.
Purpose32.
Scope33.
Definition34.
Principles45.
Minimum Standards5
3
1. PURPOSE1.1The Policy is aimed at guiding the implementation of research at STADIO based on the STADIO Research Commitment Policy (RES P001).]1.2It reflects the minimum standards that inform research policies.2.SCOPE2.1As a registered private higher education institution, STADIO is primarily a teaching institution.2.2STADIO does not aim to be a research-intensive institution and will conduct research activities in support of the institutional mission and values and its clarified research commitment.2.3However, academicsare required to engage in research in their discipline areas to develop themselves and to enrich the student learning experience, as well as to contribute to the body of knowledge in the field. 2.4Student research is promoted, further contributing to the expansion of knowledge, and aligning STADIO with the provisions of the National Development Plan, 2030 and the DHET. 3.DEFINITIONHEQCHigher Education Quality Council, as created by the Higher Education Act, 1997 (amended)ResearchThe advancement of knowledge and practice to systematically address phenomena, problems, challenges and needs and reach new conclusions or confirm existing standards. It may include both scientific research as well as technical and creative projects (such as exhibitions) that require investigation.
4
4.PRINCIPLES4.1Complying with HEQC CriteriaResearch has no independent mandate at private higher education institutions. STADIO’s emphasis on research seeks to meet the requirements as expressed in the HEQC Criteria 3 and 4 (suitably qualified and experienced staff) and Criterion 9 (quality of research supervision). In this regard, research activities will be formally managed and reported on.4.2Supporting postgraduate studentsThe quality of student research is dependent on competent senior academics. Qualified experienced senior academics will be appointed/contracted to inform and ensure the quality of student research competency and student research output.4.3Facilitating an enabling environment4.3.1Research is a time-intensive activity.Staff will be enabled to conductresearch through aninstitutionally approved acceptable workloadallocation model.4.3.2A research culture is dependent on relevant training. Training opportunities will be aimed at enhancing the culture of research and enquiry at the institution.4.4Incentivising researchResearch is encouraged as part of the institutional culture rather than forced. Staff incentives may be available for the different forms of research as approved by Senate and the STADIO Management Committee.(Refer for example to RES S002 and RES S009)4.5Updating knowledge of academic staffIn addition to formal research, there are alternative means of updating the knowledge of academic staff. Such initiatives will be reasonably supported, where relevant to learning and teaching, as well as staff development.
5
4.6Research ethics considerations4.6.1All research activities must comply with the applicable ethics standards contained in the STADIO Research Ethics Policy.(RES P002)4.6.2Research addressing any aspect of STADIO staff, students and operations must be submitted to the STADIO Senate Research Ethics Committee toensure that the research process complies with possible confidentiality requirements and measures to protect the reputation of the institution. The procedures are contained in the Research Permissions Policy and Standard Operating Procedures (RES P005 and RES S003).5.MINIMUM STANDARDS5.1Improving qualifications as part of researchAcquiring any formal knowledge fora relevant higher qualification is regarded as research. Staff will be encouraged to pursue higher degree studies until a Doctoral degree has been obtained.  The STADIO Research Policy for Staff will apply(RES P004).5.2Engaging in research to improve disciplinary knowledge5.2.1Permanent senior academic staff members who have achieved their doctorates are required to produce research output to continue enriching their knowledge of the relevant discipline. Research output norms will be approved by Senate and included in the annual performance agreements of staff.5.2.2Staff members who have not achieved their Doctorates are not prevented from engaging in other research, but priority should be given to completing postgraduate qualifications.5.2.3While research may be a requirement for academic staff in different categories, such research activity is conducted ifteaching responsibilities are properly managed. Learning and teaching commitments will always receive priority in relation to research.
6
5.2.4For the institution to achieve maximum exposure, staff will be supported to present their research at conferences. In addition, published scientific and other referenced work should invite citations, which in turn enhance the profile of the researcher and the institution. Publication and presentation under the institution’s name are a requirement for financial incentives.5.2.5Some research projects may require other support services and resources. The institution will provide other support (for example, software, editing, publication fees and statistical services) within the boundaries of affordability.5.2.6Research should be aimed at addressing contextual issues toensure increased relevance. Where possible, community involvement should be a consideration.5.3Enabling research 5.3.1Staff members are encouraged to engage in research and to produce research outputs. A variety of outputs may be recognised in this regard.5.3.2To provide impetus to the research culture in terms of sustained outputs, research incentives will be considered annually for permanent staff within the parameters of affordability.5.3.3Research outputs require substantial input in terms of time. To provide for sufficient time for research prior to presentation and/or publication, research leave will be provided to enable senior academics to engage in research(RES P004).5.3.4To provide encouragement for novice researchers and to sustain momentum, research will not only focus on accredited publications, but will encourage publication and presentation in a variety of credible formats.5.3.5Novice researchers and staff members completing postgraduate research may have substantial needs in terms of research competency. Different forms of research training will be conducted on an annual basisas part of the institutional professional development plans.5.3.6Collaborations and other complex projects should be approached with circumspection in terms oftime and resources.  All inter-institutional research co-operations must be approved by the Senate Research, Internationalisation and CommunityEngagement(RICE) Committee.
7
5.4Other methods of improving disciplinary knowledge5.4.1External experts area valuable source of knowledge. Guest speakers in relevant disciplines maybe invited to the institutions to share their knowledge and experience.5.4.2Membership of relevant professional associations provides opportunities to improve knowledge and to update practice. Academic and professional staff are encouraged to join value-adding professional associations.5.5The quality of student research5.5.1Postgraduate student research requires sufficient input in terms of research practice and methodology from qualified research academics. In this regard, postgraduate student research should be responsibly managed to ensure quality in terms of the HEQC criteria.This is managed by the relevant postgraduate research STADIO policies (RESP007 and RESP008).5.5.2Efforts should be directed towards encouraging postgraduate student research that impacts on the community and industry. Presentation, publication and sharing of research can assist with this effort in terms of community and industry impact. It is also beneficial to the institutional profile.5.6Managing research activitiesResearch activities should be managed by a properly constituted research committee called the Senate RICE Committee5.7Terms of Reference of the Senate Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement (RICE) Committee5.7.1The Senate RICE Committee is responsible for the execution and monitoring of compliance with the research policiesand standard operating procedures.5.7.2The Dean: Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement is the chair of the Senate RICE Committee. In the absence of the Dean: RICE, the Head: Institute of Postgraduate Studies and Research (or her delegated authority) will chair the Senate RICE Committee meetings.
8
5.7.3All Schools must be represented on the Committee through a single representative responsible for research activities in that School.5.7.4Decentralised groups maybe constituted and coordinated per individual school to facilitate the execution of research activities.5.7.5Annual reporting should be completed in the required schedule (form) which includes different activities and outputs.5.7.6The SenateRICE Committeewill meet at least four times per annum to consider research issues related to staff and student research, community engagement, and internationalisation.5.7.7The SenateRICE Committeewill coordinate and monitor rewards for staff research based on the required frequency.5.7.8The SenateRICE Committeewill compile and monitor the research budget for the institution.5.7.9The chair of the Senate RICE Committee is also the responsible manager for research at the institution.5.8Research Policies5.8.1Research ethics is managed through the Research Ethics Policy.5.8.2Staff research is managed through the Staff Research Policy.5.8.3Postgraduate student research is managed through the Postgraduate Student Research Policy.5.8.4Doctoral and Master’s research is managed through the Student Master’s and Doctoral Research Policy.