1
Reference Number:
RES_P004
Body responsible for Final Approval:
Board
Management Approval:
CEO Signature
Date of Final Approval:
19 May 2023
Date of Implementation:
1 June 2023
Version:
2.0
Revision Date:
1 February 2026
Previous Revisions:
1 January 2021
Policy Owner:
Chief Academic Officer
Institutional functionary responsible:
Dean: Research, Internationalisation and
Community Engagement
2
Table of Contents
1.
PURPOSE ........................................................................................................................ 3
2.
DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS ................................................................................ 3
3.i SCOPE, LIMITATIONS and PURPOSE OF THIS POLICY ...................................................... 4
4.
RESEARCH MANAGEMENT ............................................................................................. 4
5.
STAFF RESEARCH ............................................................................................................ 4
5.1
Research performance ........................................................ Error! Bookmark not defined.
5.2
Research incentives ........................................................................................................ 6
5.3
Research leave ................................................................................................................ 7
5.4
Conference attendance ................................................................................................... 8
6.
FUNDING OF STUDIES ......................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
7.
STAFF RESEARCH TRAINING.......................................................................................... 10
8.
RESEARCH amongst STADIO STUDENTS AND STAFF ..................................................... 10
9.
POSTGRADUATE STUDENT RESEARCH .......................................................................... 11
ANNEXURE A ANNUAL RESEARCH REPORT PER SCHOOL ..................................................... 12
ANNEXURE B ANNUAL RESEARCH REPORT TABLE ................................................................ 15
3
1.1
This Policy forms part of a compendium of research-related and other institutional policies
and must be read together with all other relevant and related policies.
1.2
The purpose of the Policy is to instill a culture of quality research at STADIO through an
enabling environment.
In this policy, terms used are defined as follows, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
means the Department of Higher Education and Training.
Emerging
Research
Academic
is a person with a master’s degree with a total of at least four accredited
research outputs, two articles in accredited journals in the last three years
and one conference presentation in the last two years.
Incentive
is a reward for meeting specific approved outcomes.
is a person with a total of at least eight accredited research outputs (for
those with a master’s degree) and at least six accredited outputs (for those
with a doctoral degree). Three and four articles, respectively, for those
with master’s and Doctoral degrees are required, as well as two
conference proceedings in the past two years.
Research Leave
is granted to an academic staff member to produce a recognised research
output other than a qualification.
Research output
refers to
output recognised in the DHET Research Output Policy, 2015 (Government
Gazette 38552 of 11 March 2015).  This may also include art, designs or
creative literature such as poetry or prose.
Researcher
refers to all permanently appointed STADIO employees and current
contract staff members and collectively to emerging research academics,
research academics and senior research academics.
means Research, Internationalisation and Community Engagement.
School
is an academic operational unit within the STADIO structure.
Senior Research
Academic
is a person with at least twelve accredited research outputs, of which
three were published in the last two and four in the last five years, and
three conference presentations in the last two years, one of which must
be an international conference.
means the Senate Research Ethics Committee.
4
3.
SCOPE, LIMITATIONS AND PURPOSE OF THIS POLICY
3.1
As a private higher education institution, STADIO is not eligible to receive the DHET state
subsidy for accredited research outputs.
3.2
STADIO acknowledges its responsibility to research and adding to the current body of
knowledge as a higher education institution offering degrees and postgraduate study; and
incentives for research participation and outputs are catered for in the annual institutional
budgeting cycle.
3.3
However, quality teaching and learning remains the primary pillar of scholarship at STADIO
and the annual financial and other resource allocations to research is more limited.
3.4
This does not derogate from the obligation to ensure and assure research governance.
4.1
The Senate RICE Committee:
4.1.1 provides strategic planning and management, and monitors research planning and
outputs.  The operational management of research takes place in the Schools and
for the Masters and Doctoral programmes, in the Institute for Postgraduate
Studies and Research.
4.1.2 coordinates rewards and incentives for staff research based on the approved
norms and budget.
4.1.3 approves the annual research report for submission to the Senate and the Board.
The Annual Research Report will report on activities and progress related to all
areas of research including staff research output. (Annexure A)
As a private higher education institution, STADIO may not award the titles of Professor or
Associate Professor to staff members.  However, in recognition of research output,
STADIO awards three research titles to staff members who achieve the following
standards:
5
Emerging Research
Academic: STADIO
Research Academic: STADIO
[Associate Professor]
[Professor]
1. Completed
Masters
1. Completed Masters Completed
Doctorate
2. A total 4
accredited
research
outputs1
2. A total of at least 8
research outputs2
At
least
6
research outputs3
2. A total of at least
12
research outputs4
3. 2 accredited
outputs in the
last 3 years, of
which 1 must be
in an accredited
journal
3. • 3 accredited
research outputs
published in the
last 2 years, of
which at least 1
must be in an
journal; or
• 4 accredited
last 5 years, of
which at least 2
• 3 accredited
last 2 years of
which one must
be in an
which 2 must be
4. 1 conference
presentation in
the last 2 years
2 conference
presentations in
3 conference
the last 2 years, at
least I of which
must be at an
international
conference
1 Accredited research out means a research output that will ordinarily be subsidized by the DHET were it
published by a public university per DHET Policy: Government Gazette No.: 38552 (Vol 597), published 11
March 2015.
2 Accredited research out means a research output that will ordinarily be subsidized by the DHET were it
3 Accredited research out means a research output that will ordinarily be subsidized by the DHET were it
4 Accredited research out means a research output that will ordinarily be subsidized by the DHET were it
Research incentives and Research Concessions, including Research Leave and Work-
from-home Days
6.1
Researchers may receive incentives and concessions for research activities and accredited
research outputs as well as other relevant research publications and activities as listed in
Annexure A, subjected to the annual budget allocation.
6.2
Research incentives and concessions are not a right of employment: rather they are
implemented at STADIO as a privilege instituted by the employer to promote scholarship,
and specifically research publications, and other research outputs.
Application and Implementation of Research Incentives and Concessions
7.1
The research incentives and concessions identified by STADIO aim to:
7.1.1 create conditions conducive to enhancing new knowledge production and recognised
research outputs at STADIO;
7.1.2 establish working conditions conducive to career development and supporting
continuing professional development and
7.1.3 improve the profile of academic staff and the higher education brand and
reputation of STADIO.
7.2 The research incentives and concessions for staff include, but are not limited to:
7.2.1 Financial, and other incentives in the form of leave days;
7.2.2 Incentives for permanent and contract staff who publish in the name of STADIO, if the
staff member is in the employ of STADIO; and
7.2.3 concessions that provide the employee with time-out (either off-campus and/or through
workload adjustments) in support of promoting research outputs.
7.3 Research incentives and concessions will not be provided to any person undergoing a
disciplinary process (and any concession granted prior to the disciplinary processes are
revoked with immediate effect upon the initiation of the disciplinary process).
7.4 Research concessions will not be awarded at times in the academic calendar that would
negatively impact student and/or the academic programme at STADIO.
7.5
Financial incentives for publications are calculated annually and paid out in the year
following the publication of the output.
7
7.6
If the staff member resigns during an academic year and has already published under
STADIO’s name in that academic year, he/she forfeits the incentives to which he/she may
be entitled.
8.
Research leave
8.1
Study leave to complete a qualification is managed through the STADIO staff leave policy.
8.2
In all other instances (excluding research leave to complete a qualification), a maximum
of 5 days research leave per annum may be allowed over and above the normal leave.
8.3
Research leave will only be granted if the output formally acknowledges STADIO as the
originating institution of the work.
8.4
The decision to grant research leave is at the discretion of the Academic Manager as the
first approver, and the Head of School as final approver.
8.5
The decision to grant research leave will always be based on operational requirements.
8.6
Staff members applying for research leave must include a personal development plan
(PDP) with the application, a research proposal (where relevant), and a work plan
detailing how the leave will be utilised to facilitate the completion of the research output.
The PDP will indicate the research which will be undertaken during research leave and
the committed outputs.
8.7
Regular progress reports must be submitted on the STADIO Research Tracker (SRT) based
on the timeline in the PDP.
Time-out and Work-from-home Concessions for Research
9.1
Academic staff members may be permitted to work from home on additional days to
work on research and research outputs without being required to formally apply for
research leave:
9.2
The following principles will apply in such instances:
9.2.1 There will be no reduction in the workload and academic tasks required from the
academic staff member to whom the concession is granted.
9.2.2 The staff member must commit to completing all performance and tenure requirements
on time, as may have been specified and agreed.
8
9.2.3 There should be no negative operational impact on the academic programme and on
service to the students.
9.2.4 The staff member must be able to provide his/her own stable and reliable internet
connection; and must be contactable online and/or by telephone during working hours
and must be available to attend to urgent requests and queries.
9.2.5 All committed outputs from previous work-from-home concessions must have been met
before a staff member will be granted a concession.
9.2.6 The decision to grant a work-from-home concession for research is at the discretion of
the relevant Academic Manager.
10.
Research Leave for Postgraduate Supervision
10.1
A permanent staff member who takes on academic supervision of Masters and/or
Doctoral students registered with STADIO over and above his/her regular workload
allocation and responsibilities and if not additionally remunerated to perform the
supervision function, will be eligible for up to 2 days research leave per student to provide
feedback on the final draft of the dissertation or thesis.
10.2
Research leave awarded for postgraduate supervision is in addition to the 5 days ordinary
research leave which a staff member may take for the purposes of completing a research
output – see paragraph 8 above.
10.3
Leave will be granted at the discretion of the line manager.
10.4
Leave will not be granted if it is to the detriment of the academic project or negatively
impacts service to students.
11.
Workshops and Conference Attendance
11.1
All permanent academic staff members are eligible for leave to attend conferences and
academic workshops, colloquia, symposia, webinars and seminars.
11.2
Attendance of conferences, colloquia and symposia are approved and funded by the
relevant School and will always be budget dependent.
11.3
Participation in a conference without presentation at the conference will only be
permitted if there is an indication that the conference will enhance discipline knowledge
and/or professional development for teaching and learning.
9
11.4
International Conferences
11.4.1 International conference attendance will only be considered if (i) there are no direct cost
implications such as accommodation and travel, or (ii) the conference is presented online.
11.4.2 When considering applications to attend an international conference, research output
over the preceding 24 months will be considered.
11.4.3 Staff members who have not been active in terms of research output may not receive
approval for leave for international conference attendance.
11.5
Researchers funded or granted leave to attend conferences, workshops, webinars,
seminars, colloquia and symposia are required to provide a written and/or internal
seminar report on learnings from the conference as determined by the institution.
11.6
Where permission is granted to attend a conference, workshop, webinar, seminar,
symposium or colloquium, no leave needs to be taken.
11.7
Permission is at the discretion of the line manager and the final decision will be based on
the assurance that there is no impediment to the academic programme.
12.
Staff Obligations for and Arising from Research Leave
12.1
All staff members involved in research activities have the obligation to:
12.1.1 register their research progress as committed in their PDP on the SRT; and
12.1.2 maintain the correctness of his/her profile on the SRT.
12.2
A staff member planning to present at a Conference must ensure that formal double-blind
peer review is part of the process for conference acceptance so that a recognised research
output is achieved.
12.3
All research incentives and concessions will be determined based on information
available on the SRT.
12.4
No research leave will be granted to any staff member who has not completed the
outputs from a previous period of leave and recorded the output/s on the SRT.
12.5
If a planned output is not delivered within 18 months of the leave taken, the leave will be
converted to annual leave, and if there is insufficient leave to cover this, it will be
converted to unpaid leave.
10
13.
Evidence of Achievement of Committed Research Outputs
13.1
The onus is on the staff members to ensure that all commitments (and other research
outputs) are loaded onto the SRT.
13.2
Proof of submission of the promised research output by the committed due date is
sufficient for prima facie evidence of achievement, and to ensure that no penalties are
incurred for non-compliance with the terms of any research concession awarded.
13.3
Proof of acceptance of the research output must be provided for any research incentive
(excluding financial incentives) to be awarded, or further research concession to be
granted.
13.4
Research leave in any following year will not be awarded unless the acceptance of
preceding committed outputs is provided and logged on to the SRT.
13.5
Financial research incentives will only be awarded once the committed research is
published or the conference paper presented.
14.
Staff research training
14.1 The Senate RICE Committee should initiate annual training to assist academic staff
members to develop their research capacity.
14.2 Schools who provide Honours research programmes must budget for and ensure that
supervisors and other evaluators are properly trained.
14.3 The Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research will budget for and ensure that
supervisors and other evaluators involved in the Masters and Doctoral programmes are
properly trained.
14.4 Mentorships are encouraged, to enable new researchers to gain from the experience of
established academic researchers.
15.
15.1
The interests of STADIO students, staff and the institution must be protected.
11
15.2
Research with STADIO students and staff is guided by the SREC and ratified by Senate RICE
Committee.
15.3
All research must be conducted in accordance with approved STADIO research ethics
norms, principles, and policies.
15.4
The onus is on the researcher to ensure that she/he is familiar and complies with the
STADIO policies for academic research, and all other relevant policies.
16.
16.1 Postgraduate student research is managed by the Postgraduate Students Research Policy.
16.2 Master’s and Doctoral research are managed by the Master’s and Doctoral Research Policy
and relevant Standard Operating Procedures.
RESEARCH REPORT – SCHOOL OF…
[A]
Accredited Journal Publications
Author/s
Article Title
Journal
Date of Publication
[B]
Editor of books:
Editor/s
Book Title
Publisher
[C]
Book chapters
Title of
Chapter
Editor of
Book
Date of
Publication
[D]
Conference Papers - Presentation
Title of Paper
Conference
Name
Venue
Date
[E]
Conference Papers – Publications in DHET accredited Conference Proceedings
Paper
Proceeding
[F]
Presentation at Webinars
Author(s)/
Presenter(s)
Webinar
Organiser of
13
[G]
Articles in peer-reviewed industry publications
publication
Type of
[H]
Other written publications
[I]
Other media submissions
Topic/Subject
Type of media
[J]
Editor / Co- editor of an accredited journal
Staff member
Name of journal
Number of issues per year
[K]
Postgraduate qualifications obtained
Degree
University and date
[L]
Research training/workshops attended
14
Staff
member
Number of
days
Where
Presenters
None
[M]
Research Workshops presented
Number
of
[N]
Supervision/Co-supervision of Doctoral and Master’s students (indicate Mini/Full
Dissertations)
students
Student
Institution
Mini/Full
Title
15
•
The report provides for both direct and indirect costs.
Staff with Master’s and Doctorates need to be calculated in relation to the one-level-up
requirement.
Staff improving their qualifications also need to be determined in relation to the
teaching requirements.
All staff are required to upgrade their knowledge on an annual basis in order to ensure
that their knowledge is relevant to the contemporary classroom.
Staff who teach research methodology, and/or supervise and/or mark dissertations,
must be involved in formal research.
Improvement plans must be based on the feedback provided in the table below.
SCHOOL/INSTITUTION
Full-time
Part-time
Cost if
applicable
Comments
Number of staff with
Doctorates
Number of staff completing
No of
events
No of staff
Conference attendance
16
Colloquia/symposia
attended
Guest speakers/master
classes attended
Conference hosted
Colloquia/symposia hosted
classes hosted
No of items
Chapters in books, reports
and discussion papers
Scientific conference paper
presented
presented and published in
proceedings
Peer-reviewed conference
paper presented and
published in proceedings
Peer-reviewed scientific
conference paper
accredited proceedings
article in journal
article in accredited journal
17
Journal publications in DHET accredited journals
Double-blind peer-reviewed journal publications in industry journals
Book chapters in books that are not only for students of STADIO and/or designated a textbook
by the publishers, and which have a dedicated ISBN or e-ISBN number
Books that are not only for students of STADIO and/or designated a textbook by the publishers,
and which have a dedicated ISBN or e-ISBN number
Conference papers that have been double-blind peer reviewed
Submissions published in conference proceedings with a designated ISBN or e-ISBN number