Reference Number:
SA_P006
Body responsible for Final Approval:
Board
Management Approval:
CEO Signature
Date of Final Approval:
2020
Date of Implementation:
1 January 2021
Revision Date:
2023
Previous Revisions:
n/a
Policy Owner:
Chief Academic Officer
Institutional functionary responsible:
Registrar
STADIO Student Disciplinary Code
Table of contents
1.
4
2.
5
3.
4.
THE STUDENT DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE (SDC)
9
4.1
9
4.2
4.3
NON-AVAILABILITY OF SDC MEMBERS
4.4
10
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
STUDENT’S ABSENCE FROM HEARING
11
4.9
4.10
4.11
5.
11
5.1
12
5.2
5.3
5.4
13
5.5
6.
14
7.
15
8.
16
9.
9.1
16
9.2
17
9.3
9.4
9.5
10. REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE OF FINDINGS
19
11. SAFEKEEPING OF THE RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
12. COMMENCEMENT OF THIS CODE
13. REVIEW
14. OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES
20
ANNEXURE “A”
21
CHAPTER 13 (A) OF A STUDENT DISCIPLINARY CODE
Purpose
4
1. DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS
Brochure
means a pamphlet or booklet containing information about a product or
service offering at STADIO
Cannabis
means (a) the flowering or fruiting tops and the leaves of a cannabis plant that
have been separated from the plant, but excludes any seed, seedling, the stalk
and branches without any leaf, fruit or flower, and the roots of a cannabis
plant; and (b) any substance which contains THC, fresh cannabis, dried
cannabis and cannabis concentrate, which are classes of cannabis
Chief Executive Officer of STADIO
Code
means the Student Disciplinary Code, set out in this document, together with
all annexures (if any) thereto
Days
means calendar days
Disciplinary Hearing
means any Disciplinary Hearing convened and conducted against a Student in
accordance with the provisions of the Code
Employee
means a permanent or temporary/contracted employee of STADIO
External Legal
Representation
means any external firm of attorneys, individual attorney and/or advocate
instructed by STADIO to render and legal services to STADIO
Head of School
means a head of a School at STADIO
Initiator
means an employee of STADIO appointed by the Registrar to present the
evidence on behalf of STADIO at a Disciplinary Hearing
Institution
means STADIO and its Campuses individually or collectively
Institutional Policies
means all policies applicable and binding on Students, as published on
STADIO's website, as updated and amended from time to time
Registrar
means the Institutional Registrar at STADIO, from time to time
School
means a division within STADIO comprising one subject area, or a number of
related subject areas
STADIO premises
means any premises or building which is the property of STADIO or is
controlled by or in possession of STADIO for STADIO activities, including
examination venues
Senate
means the highest academic decision-making body of STADIO where all
decisions of an academic nature are confirmed and changes to policy are
approved
Student(s)
means any person, who at the time of the alleged misconduct is or was:
5
•
registered for any qualification/workshop on STADIO’s Student
Administration System, or
taught or evaluated on any STADIO premises by an employee or someone
contracted by STADIO for that purpose
means a the Student Disciplinary Committee, constituted by the Registrar to
adjudicate charges of misconduct involving Student(s)
means the Student Disciplinary Appeal Committee, constituted by the
Registrar to consider Student appeals against decisions by the SDC
Student's
Representative
means a Student selected to act as a representative for another Student of
STADIO during a Disciplinary Hearing
2. GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND RULES
2.1
The Code is aimed at:
2.1.2
upholding the good reputation of STADIO;
maintaining order, discipline, safety and security at STADIO; and
2.1.3
ensuring the integrity of the academic processes and assessment practices of STADIO.
2.2
Any conduct of a Student which contravenes the Code and/or negatively impacts on the goals
listed in Rule 2.1 above may be regarded as misconduct and subject to disciplinary proceedings.
2.3
The general supervision and control of Student discipline at STADIO vests with the Office of the
Registrar and is administered in terms of this Code.
2.4
This Code must be read evenly with all other Institutional Policies. In the event of any
contradiction between this Code and any Institutional Policies in respect of any misconduct set
out in Rule 3 below, the provisions of this Code will prevail.
3. MISCONDUCT
3.1
A Student is guilty of misconduct if she/he conducts him/herself in a manner contrary to the
goals set out in Rule 2.1 above, which includes but is not limited to if she/he:
3.1.1
engages in disruptive behaviour towards staff, Students and/or the Institution, and/or
prevents other Students and/or staff from engaging in activities and practices of the
Institution;
6
3.1.2
intentionally or negligently contravenes or undermines, or attempts to contravene or
undermine, or assists, encourages or persuades any other person to contravene or
undermine this Code or any regulation and rule of STADIO;
3.1.3
refuses or fails to comply with a lawful instruction or request of an employee of STADIO
authorised to give such instruction or to make such request, or acts contrary to such
instruction or request;
3.1.4
commits any statutory or common law crime while on the premises of STADIO;
3.1.5
intentionally or negligently misuses, damages, defaces, destroys or alienates, or
without authorisation, uses any building, furniture or equipment, computer, vehicle,
notes, documents or any other thing owned or controlled by STADIO or by any
employee of STADIO or by any registered Student of STADIO;
3.1.6
intentionally or negligently mismanages and/or misappropriates funds of STADIO;
3.1.7
brings any liquor onto any STADIO premises without the consent of the CEO (or a
person duly authorised by the CEO) or consumes or abuses liquor and/or is under the
influence of liquor while on any STADIO Premises;
3.1.8
unlawfully uses or has in his or her possession a dependence-producing substance or
dangerous dependence-producing substance, as defined in section 1 of the Drugs and
Drug Trafficking Act, 1992 and Cannabis on any STADIO premises or brings any such
substance onto any STADIO premises ;
3.1.9
without proper prior authorisation brings onto and/or causes and/or allows to be
brought onto or stores on any STADIO premises a firearm, other dangerous weapon,
fuel that cannot reasonably be shown to be required for the operation of a motor
vehicle, or any explosive device;
3.1.10
sexually or otherwise harasses any person, as defined in the Sexual Harassment Policy
(Students) (SA P004) as published on the STADIO website, as updated and amended
from time to time, while on STADIO premises, and/or uses equipment or learning
spaces belonging to and/or created by and/or enabled by STADIO to sexually or
otherwise harass any person as defined in the Sexual Harassment Policy (Students)
(SA_P004);
3.1.11
acts in any manner which constitutes an unlawful infringement of any right protected
in the Bill of Rights (sections 7 to 39) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996;
3.1.12
acts in a racist manner towards any person while on any STADIO premises and/or uses
equipment or learning spaces belonging to and/or created by and/or enabled by
STADIO to behave in a racist manner towards any person;
3.1.13
commits an indecent act on any STADIO premises and/or uses equipment or learning
spaces belonging to and/or created by and/or enabled by STADIO to commit an
indecent act towards any person;
3.1.14
unlawfully expresses, publishes or disseminates in speech, writing, print, electronic or
other medium at STADIO any views, beliefs or ideology which infringes upon the
7
dignity or other human rights of any Student or groups of Students, or any employee
of STADIO or person invited by STADIO as a guest of STADIO;
3.1.15
without the written permission of the CEO or a person duly authorised by the CEO uses
the name and/or logo of STADIO, or displays it;
3.1.16
convenes an assembly on any STADIO premises without obtaining the prior consent of
the CEO (or the person duly authorised by him/her), or attends a gathering prohibited
by the CEO;
3.1.17
knowingly makes a false statement about STADIO or otherwise intentionally provides
materially false information to anyone inside or outside of STADIO about STADIO;
3.1.18
intentionally or negligently tenders or presents to any employee of STADIO any
document which he or she knows or ought reasonably to have known to be false or a
forgery and which causes or has the potential to cause prejudice to the administrative,
financial and/or academic interests of STADIO;
3.1.19
accepts or offers a bribe to Students, employees, contractors, and/or any other official
of STADIO;
3.1.20
reproduces or transmits in any form or manner, whether electronically or mechanically
(including photocopying and faxing), any study guide, book, thesis, dissertation, article,
examination paper, lecture, printed tutorial matter or any other study aids in respect
of which copyright exists, unless such reproduction or transmission is done in a manner
authorised in terms of the Copyright Act, 1978 (as amended), and unless the copyright
owner’s permission for the reproduction or transmission is obtained;
3.1.21
plagiarises any ideas and/or work, by representing the ideas or work of another,
whether through direct copying or the use of Artificial Intelligence tools, as one’s own
without appropriately acknowledging the original source of the work, in any manner
whatsoever.
3.1.22
collects money or offers goods for sale or advertises goods on any STADIO premises
without the permission of the CEO (or a person duly authorised by him/her);
3.1.23
neglects or refuses to return library material borrowed from any STADIO library;
3.1.24
behaves in any manner that leads or may lead to the consequences described below,
if such consequences were or should reasonably have been foreseen at the time when
such behaviour occurred. Such behaviour includes conduct by which:
(a)
the good name and reputation of STADIO is or may be impaired,
(b)
the maintenance of order, discipline and security at STADIO is or may be
prejudiced or imperilled, or
(c)
the process of tuition, research and administration and general STADIO
activities are or may be prejudiced or imperilled;
3.1.25
knowingly makes a false statement or otherwise intentionally provides materially false
information in any formal STADIO investigation, proceedings or document;
3.1.26
incites another Student(s) to commit an act of misconduct;
3.1.27
bullies and/or intimidates another Student(s) or member(s) of staff; or
8
3.1.28
prevents or attempts to prevent another Student(s) or a staff member(s) from
accessing any STADIO premises or attending classes at STADIO.
3.2
With specific regard to assessments, a Student is guilty of misconduct if he/she cheats in any
STADIO examination/assignment.
3.2.1
For purposes of this rule, “examination/assignment” includes all assessments of a
Student’s performance organised and/or conducted in the name of STADIO.
3.2.2
Further for the purposes of this rule, “cheating”’ includes:
the possession of any unauthorised notes and/or aid(s) in the examination
venue after the first answer book or question paper is made available to
Students, which may assist a Student in the examination;
the use or attempted use during an examination of any note, device,
equipment or aid, the use of which is not authorised by the examiner,
examination officer or examination instruction;
the communication or attempted communication with any other Student
while the examination is in progress;
(d)
the removal or attempted removal from an examination room of any
examination paper, examination book or writing paper supplied by STADIO
for the purposes of answering an examination;
(e)
the use of a false name, identity number or Student number in an
examination;
(f)
the submission for examination as own work any matter that has been
copied, reproduced, or extracted in whole or in part from the work of
another Student or some other person, or which is substantially the same in
whole or in part as the work of another Student;
(g)
deliberately or negligently assisting another Student to cheat as defined in
this Rule 3.2.2;
(h)
accessing any assessment, test, or examination paper, or marking
memorandum or model answer of STADIO prior to an examination or
assignment without authorisation;
(i)
accessing the work of another person during an examination without
authorisation; and
(j)
the commission of any other fraudulent or dishonest practice whereby a
Student, while being examined by STADIO, seeks to mislead or deceive the
examiner or the examination officer.
3.3
The STADIO Examinations committee handles disciplinary measures for
students suspected of cheating in an examination. Based on an assessment
of the evidence, they will make a decision and apply a suitable sanction. In
cases where there is a dispute of facts that cannot be resolved, the matter
will be referred to a disciplinary hearing.
9
4. THE STUDENT DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE (SDC)
4.1.1
Upon a decision by the Registrar in terms of Rule 5.4.2 below, the Registrar will
constitute and appoint the SDC for a specific complaint. The SDC will consist of three
persons identified and appointed by the  Registrar, at his/her sole discretion, from
amongst the following:
a person duly authorised or appointed by the CEO;
the Head of School, or a person duly authorised or appointed by him or her
from the School in which the accused Student is registered;
a member of the Academic or senior Administrative staff appointed by the
Senate; and
a member of the School of Law appointed by the Head of School; and
the Deputy School Registrar from the School in which the Student against
whom the Disciplinary Hearing will be conducted, is registered.
4.1.2
The Registrar will nominate any person on the SDC as the Chairperson of the SDC.
4.1.3
No person who has lodged a complaint against the Student against whom disciplinary
charges are brought or involved in the disciplinary investigation of the charges may be
part of the SDC.
4.1.4
A member of the Students Representative Council may be invited by the Registrar to
attend an SDC meeting, with observer status only.
4.1.5
Upon finalisation of the disciplinary hearing for which the SDC was constituted, the
SDC in respect of such disciplinary hearing will cease to hold such office.
All persons appointed to the SDC must be present at all proceedings before the SDC.
4.3.1
If at any stage during the sitting of the SDC a member of the SDC is permanently no
longer able to participate in the proceedings, the hearing shall be terminated and shall
commence de novo before a newly constituted SDC, provided that if the Student
agrees, the member may be substituted by another member nominated by the
Registrar.
4.3.2
If at any stage during the sitting of the SDC a member of the SDC is not available for
any reason, the SDC must adjourn until that person is available.
10
4.3.3
The  Registrar shall decide whether to apply Rules 4.3.1 or 4.3.2 in his or her sole
discretion after considering the relevant facts and consulting with the Student and
members of the SDC.
Subject to the provisions of this Code, the procedure to be adopted at the SDC is determined by
the Chairperson of the SDC.
The Registrar appoints the Initiator to present the case for STADIO at all Disciplinary Hearing
proceedings. The Initiator may also investigate the complaint of misconduct and frame the
charges. The Registrar may substitute or replace the Initiator at any time.
4.6.1
A Student accused of misconduct in terms of this Code may be represented at the
Disciplinary Hearing before the SDC by:
a fellow Student registered with STADIO;
a member of the STADIO Students Representative Council; or
an employee of STADIO.
4.6.2
A Student facing disciplinary charges is not entitled to be represented at a Disciplinary
Hearing before the SDC by external legal representation.
4.7.1
At the conclusion of the evidence, the SDC decides, in light of all the evidence
presented, whether or not a Student is guilty of the misconduct, as charged. A finding
of guilty will only be returned if:
4.7.1.1
the misconduct charged has, in the opinion of the SDC, been proved on a
balance of probabilities; or
4.7.1.2
a Student has freely and voluntarily admitted to being guilty of the
misconduct accused of and the SDC is satisfied that there is information from
the accused or from another source to substantiate the admission. Should
the SDC not be satisfied with the evidence presented, it may of its own accord
call for further evidence to be led in respect of the charge.
4.7.2
If the SDC does not find a Student guilty as provided for under Rule 4.7.1.2, a Student
is acquitted of the charge.
4.7.3
The decision of the SDC is determined by a majority vote of the members present,
where applicable.
If a Student charged with misconduct does not attend his/her Disciplinary Hearing, in the
absence of good cause for not attending provided to the SDC by no later than 30 minutes after
the scheduled starting time, such hearing shall proceed in his/her absence and the proceedings
of the SDC will not be invalid as a result thereof.
A member of the SDC who has laid a complaint of misconduct against the Student or who is
involved in the disciplinary investigation of the charges or who has a conflict of interest in the
matter must recuse him/herself from the proceedings of the SDC which has been constituted
for the purpose of adjudicating a charge emanating from the complaint.
If a Student charged with misconduct interferes with or obstructs any proceedings of the SDC or
refuses to carry out a reasonable instruction of the Chairperson of such SDC, the Chairperson
may take such reasonable and proportional steps as he/she may consider necessary to ensure
the orderly conduct of the Disciplinary Hearing proceedings, which may include continuing in
the absence of the Student, provided that the Student shall be offered the opportunity to make
representations before the decision is taken.
4.11.1
The Registrar must ensure, by means of digital recording, that the proceedings of the
SDC are recorded, and must keep on record all documents forming part of the
Disciplinary Hearing proceedings.
4.11.2
If for any reason the digital recording fails, the Chairperson shall take all reasonable
steps to reconstruct the record in consultation with the SDC, the Initiator and the
Student. Where the record cannot be adequately reconstructed, the hearing must be
heard de novo unless alternative arrangements are made by agreement with the
Student.
12
A Student will not be formally charged with misconduct until a written and signed statement containing
an accusation, complaint or allegation made against a Student has been submitted to the Registrar or a
person authorised by him/her to receive such complaint, provided that nothing contained herein will
prevent the Registrar from laying a complaint of misconduct against a Student.
5.2.1
The Registrar may appoint one or more persons to conduct a preliminary investigation
into an accusation, complaint or allegation brought to his/her attention and the
Registrar will compile terms of reference accompanying such appointment.
5.2.2
Such person(s) so appointed must submit a written report and/or charge sheet to the
Registrar in line with the terms of reference accompanying the appointment.
5.2.3
The person(s) appointed to conduct the preliminary investigation may consult with or
obtain information from any person, including the Student against whom the
accusation, complaint or allegation has been made.
5.2.4
If the Registrar is of the opinion that there is a prima facie case and that there are
reasonable grounds for a charge of misconduct, he/she may refer the matter to be
heard by the SDC.
5.3.1
When proceedings against a Student are instituted in terms of Rule 5.2.4 above, notice
in writing must be given to the Student in question of the date, time and place of the
Disciplinary Hearing by the SDC, which date and time may not be less than 14 calendar
days from the date of the notice, unless the Student agrees to such shorter period.
5.3.2
The notice under this rule will inform the Student:
that proceedings under this Code are to be instituted against him/her and
that a copy of this Code is available for inspection on the STADIO website and
in the Brochure provided to all Students;
of the Rule that the Student is alleged to have breached and/or the act/s of
misconduct that the Student is alleged to have committed. The notice must
set out the charge with sufficient particularity and documentation to enable
the Student to prepare for his/her defence;
of his/her right to answer the charge in writing at least 4 calendar days before
the Disciplinary Hearing;
of his/her right to attend the Disciplinary Hearing to present his/her case, or
to be represented at the Disciplinary Hearing by a fellow Student registered
13
with STADIO, a member of the STADIO Students Representative Council; or
an employee of STADIO;
that the Student may not be represented by an external legal
representative/practitioner; and
of his/her right if he/she is a minor to be assisted by his/her parent or
guardian or, at the discretion of the SDC, to be assisted by any other person
appointed by such parent or guardian, provided that nothing contained in
this Rule renders the conduct of the SDC void if a Student is not so assisted
on the date set for the Disciplinary Hearing.
5.4.1
Service of any written notice and the furnishing of particulars in terms of this Code will
be by prepaid, registered post to the residential/postal address or to the email address
as provided either on the most recent application form completed by a Student for the
purpose of registration or on any later written notice submitted by a Student to
STADIO of a change of address.
5.4.2
In the case of such service, a Student will be deemed to have received the notice and
particulars within 5 calendar days of the date of posting thereof, or within one day of
emailing thereof.
5.5.1
A Student who has been served with a notice in terms of Rule 5.4.1 may be suspended
from STADIO if it is necessary to safeguard the interests of STADIO and/or the
wellbeing of other Student/s.
5.5.2
The Notice of Suspension may inter alia prohibit such Student from:
entering onto the any STADIO premises or any part thereof, and/or
exercising a right or privilege resulting from his/her enrolment as a Student.
5.5.3
A temporary suspension in terms of Rule 5.5.1 remains in force and effect for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days or until the disciplinary proceedings in terms of this Code
have been completed, whichever instance may first occur.
5.5.4
The Registrar or a person authorised by him/her shall, before suspending a Student,
give the Student no less than 24 hours’ notice of STADIO's intention to suspend the
Student, with brief reasons and the proposed terms of suspension, and invite the
Student to make written representations advancing reasons why she/he should not be
suspended.
5.5.5
The  Registrar or person authorised by him/her shall as soon as practicable consider
the Student’s representations before deciding on the suspension and advise the
Student of the decision in writing and the reasons for the decision once it has been
taken, as well as the conditions of suspension.
5.5.6
No such suspension shall prevent a Student from taking an examination or submitting
an assignment.
5.5.7
The  Registrar may at his/her discretion revoke a suspension at any time.
5.5.8
Suspension in urgent circumstances.
Under circumstances deemed urgent, the Registrar may suspend a Student
and thereafter allow the Student to make representations concerning the
suspension and its revocation.
A written notice of suspension stating the reasons therefor and the
conditions of suspension must be delivered to the Student and the Student
must be afforded the opportunity to make written representations within 12
hours of receipt thereof regarding the revocation of the suspension, or such
longer period as the Student may request.
(c)
The Student must be notified of the decision regarding the revocation or
continued suspension and the reasons therefor as soon as practicable after
the Student’s representations have been considered and a decision has been
taken.
6.
6.1
The Initiator leads evidence against the accused Student and generally conducts the
case for STADIO during the Disciplinary Hearing.
6.2
The SDC must allow a Student or such person representing a Student a reasonable
opportunity to present the Student's defense and to answer the charges.
6.3
Both the Initiator and the accused Student are allowed to adduce all relevant evidence
and call witnesses and to examine and cross-examine witnesses, as appropriate. The
Initiator and the accused Student may at any time agree to facts that are common
cause.
6.4
The SDC may ask the Initiator and the accused Student which facts are common cause
at the start of proceedings and record any agreement in this regard, and also ask the
witnesses questions for clarity, but must remain unbiased and shall not create any
reasonable apprehension of bias.
6.5
The SDC may further, of its own accord, call upon either the Initiator or the Student to
adduce evidence that it may deem relevant to a determination of the issue(s) before
it.
6.6
The hearing of the SDC is conducted in an informal manner, according to the principles
of natural justice and with due regard for the rights of the accused Student. The rules
of procedure and rules of evidence as applied in the ordinary courts do not apply.
6.7
If a Student is a minor, no disciplinary action(s) will be taken against that Student
before his/her parent or guardian has also been informed in writing of his/her alleged
misconduct and has been given a proper opportunity to make a written statement and,
if he/she so wishes, to appear before the SDC in person, provided that nothing
contained in this Rule renders the conduct of the SDC void if, proper notice having
been given, a Student is not so assisted during the disciplinary action(s) taken.
7.1
When considering an appropriate sanction, the SDC must take into account all mitigating and
aggravating factors presented during the Disciplinary Hearing . Further, when considering the
appropriateness of the disciplinary measures to be imposed, the SDC must ensure that such
disciplinary measures are, as far as possible, appropriate to and commensurate with the nature
and gravity of the misconduct of which a Student has been found guilty. The guidelines to be
used in imposing appropriate sanctions are hereto attached as Annexure “A”. And still further,
it is noted that the SDC is also bound by the rules of administrative law and natural justice and
the principles of precedent.
7.2
After finding a Student guilty of misconduct, the SDC may impose one or more of the following
sanctions in no particular order:
7.2.1
revocation of a degree, diploma or other qualification obtained from STADIO in an
improper manner;
7.2.2        a written reprimand and/or warning;
7.2.3     denial of a right or privilege resulting from enrolment as a Student at STADIO for a
specific period;
7.2.4     a fine not exceeding twice the annual tuition fee for the full first semester/year of
study of the qualification for which a Student is registered;
7.2.5
payment of compensation or requiring the accused Student to repair the damage
caused by his/her misconduct;
7.2.6
denial of the right or privilege to register for a particular study module offered by
STADIO;
7.2.7
annulments of examination results and/or withdrawal of a credit(s) obtained on a
study module in question;
7.2.8
refusal of admission to an examination for a specified period;
7.2.9
confirmation of the temporary suspension of a Student, and/or the suspension of a
Student for a specified period or further period subject to any condition(s) which the
SDC deems reasonable;
7.2.10
denial of the privilege to register or enroll again as a Student at STADIO for a specified
period;
7.2.11
expulsion as a Student from STADIO;  and/or
7.2.12
any other appropriate sanction(s) which the SDC deems suitable in the particular
circumstances.
7.3
A Student who is temporarily or permanently deprived in terms of this Code of a right or privilege
which he/she enjoyed as a Student or is temporarily or permanently denied admission to
STADIO, forfeits any claim for repayment, reduction or remission of moneys and/or tuition paid
or payable to STADIO.
8.1
If the SDC finds an accused Student:
8.1.1  guilty, a Student is notified in writing of the finding and the sanction(s) imposed
by the SDC. In the notice, a Student is further informed of his/her right to appeal
against the finding(s) and/or the sanction(s) imposed;
8.1.2
not guilty, a Student is notified in writing of the finding of the SDC.
8.2
If a Student is a minor, no disciplinary measure/s will be taken against that Student
if he/she so wishes, to appear before the SDC in person provided that nothing contained
in this Rule renders the conduct of the SDC void if, proper notice having been given, a
Student is not so assisted by his/her parent or guardian.
8.3
The Initiator is notified in writing of the finding of the SDC at the same time that the
Student is notified in terms of 8.1.
A SDAC hears appeals in respect of findings of the SDC.
17
9.1.1
The SDAC is responsible for the hearing of all appeals in respect of the SDC decisions
based on factual findings, matters relating to procedure and/or the sanctions imposed
by the SDC.
9.1.2
The SDAC may:
uphold, review, reverse, nullify and/or substitute a decision of the SDC with
its own decision;
cure any defects in the SDC hearing; and
hear new evidence in addition to the record of the SDC proceedings.
9.2.1
The Registrar, shall upon receipt of an appeal in terms of Rule 9.5, appoint a SDAC for
the specific appeal. The SDAC will consist of two members identified from the following
groups of persons, as per the STADIO organogram:
a person duly appointed as the Head of an Academic School;
a person duly appointed by the  Registrar from amongst the list of 4 members
nominated by the Senate;
the Executive Head: Contact Learning or the Executive Head: Distance
Learning;
an external person due to his/her expertise, which could include legal
expertise.
9.2.2
The Registrar shall nominate any person on the SDAC as the Chairperson of the SDAC.
9.2.3
charges are brought or involved in the disciplinary investigation of the charges or in
the SDC may be part of the SDAC.
9.2.4
A Student representative may be nominated, with observer status, to attend an SDAC
meeting.
All persons appointed to the SDAC must be present at all proceedings before the SDAC.
The provisions of Chapters 4 to 7 apply with the necessary changes to the functioning of the
SDAC.
18
9.5.1
A Student who has been found guilty of misconduct or the Initiator, where there has
been an irregularity in proceedings or where new evidence has come to light, may,
within 14 calendar days of being informed of the finding of the SDC, appeal in writing
by lodging a written Notice of Appeal to the Registrar, provided that a Student who
has been found guilty of misconduct after having pleaded guilty to the charge against
him/her has no right of appeal against such finding, but may still appeal against the
sanction.
9.5.2
The person appealing must furnish, in writing, detailed grounds for his/her appeal in
the Notice of Appeal.
9.5.3
Upon receipt of a Notice of Appeal, the Registrar must forward a copy of such Notice
of Appeal to the Chairperson of the SDC who adjudicated the charge, who within 10
calendar days must compile a response to the grounds for appeal and submit it to the
Registrar for submission to the Chairperson of the SDAC and to the other parties, i.e.
the Student and the Initiator. The Student and the Initiator may submit a reply thereto
to the SDAC within 7 calendar days.
9.5.4
When an appeal is lodged against a decision of the SDC in terms of Rule 9, the
enforcement of any disciplinary measure and/or sanction imposed by the SDC is
automatically suspended pending the outcome of the appeal.
9.5.5
An appeal will be decided based on the record of the proceedings of the SDC, together
with any document(s) and exhibit(s) submitted during the SDC hearing, save where
new evidence has come to light, in which case the new evidence may be presented to
the SDAC. The decision whether to allow such alleged new evidence will be that of the
Chairperson of the SDAC.
9.5.6
The SDAC may, in its discretion, request the Student and the Initiator to lead evidence
and/or make submissions in respect of any matter it may consider relevant.
9.5.7
The SDAC shall consider the record of the SDC, any new evidence, and the
representations of the Student and the Initiator. After considering an appeal, the SDAC
may uphold, review, reverse, nullify or substitute its own decision for the decision of
the SDC in any respect.
9.5.8
Prior to reaching a final decision concerning the appeal, the SDAC may refer any
question pertaining to the hearing of the SDC back to the SDC concerned and order
that a report be submitted, in which case the Student and the Initiator shall be given a
copy of the question/s and the report, and have the opportunity to make
representations in connection therewith to the SDAC.
9.5.9
The SDAC will not increase any sanction(s) imposed by the SDC unless the SDAC has
given the accused Student prior reasonable written notice of its intention to do so and
has further considered the Student's written representations, if any, in this regard.
9.5.10
All SDAC decisions are final and there is no further forum for appeal within STADIO
structures after the SDAC.
10.
10.1
If a Student in respect of whom the SDC has imposed a sanction or the Initiator fails to
exercise his/her right of appeal as set out in Rule 9, the Registrar shall do all things
necessary to implement the decision of the SDC.
10.2
If a Student in respect of whom the SDC has imposed a sanction exercises his/her right
of appeal as set out in Rule 9, the SDAC will submit a written report on the matter after
disposing of the appeal to the Registrar who shall do all things necessary to implement
the decision of the SDAC.
10.3
Final decisions in respect of Student Disciplinary Hearing may be made public (without
identifying a Student) by any other means determined by the Registrar, save where
exceptional circumstances are found to exist.
10.4
The Registrar shall maintain a central register of all disciplinary proceedings and
sanctions.
10.5
The CEO shall at any time be entitled to request and to be provided with a
report/feedback on a disciplinary matter pending before the SDC or SDAC.
11.
11.1
All documents and records pertaining to a disciplinary matter will be kept in safe
custody by the Registrar. A Student or person authorised by the Student is entitled to
receive copies of such documents and records at his/her own expense.
11.2
Such documents and records will be held by STADIO for a period of three years after a
matter has been finalised.
12.
12.1
This Code and any amendment hereto comes into operation on the date on which it is
approved by the Board of STADIO.
12.2
This Code is the relevant Code for all Students registered at STADIO from the
commencement date of this Code or any amendment hereto and repeals all previous
Codes that may have been previously adopted and utilised.
13.
13.1
This Code shall be reviewed in a three-year cycle.
13.2
No amendments to this Code shall be made save in consultation with the Senate.
14.
For the purposes of ensuring consistency in sentencing, minimum and maximum sanctions to be
imposed by the SDC and SDAC will be in place for consideration by the SDC and SADC.
RULE 13 (A) OF A STUDENT DISCIPLINARY CODE
The purpose of these guidelines is to provide members of the SDC with a yardstick against which to
measure the sanctions to be imposed against Students found guilty during a Disciplinary Hearing. The
guidelines are a measure to provide uniformity in the sanctioning processes. However, these guidelines
are not intended to be prescriptive and members of the SDC will always have the right to accept or reject,
increase or lower the sanctions set out in the guidelines with fully substantiated reasons. The guidelines
must be made available to all members of the SDC at the disciplinary proceedings.
When considering an appropriate sanction, the SDC must take into account all the mitigating and
aggravating factors presented by both parties during the Disciplinary Hearing and consider the said
sanction on a case‐by‐case analysis:
A Student who:
1.1
Intentionally or negligently contravened or subverted, or attempted to contravene or subvert,
or assisted, encouraged or persuaded any other person to contravene or subvert a code,
regulation or instruction of STADIO
Sanction:
In such cases the matter will be have to be judged on the facts and circumstances of each case
and the nature of the misconduct that has been perpetrated.
1.2
Refused or failed to comply with a lawful instruction or request of an employee of STADIO
authorised to give such instruction or make such request, acts contrary to such instruction or
request
The sanction will be determined by the nature of the request or instruction that was disobeyed.
22
1.3
Committed any statutory or common law crime while on the premises of STADIO
The sanction will be determined by the seriousness of the crime. The crime must also be
reported to the nearest SAPS as soon as possible.
1.4
Intentionally or negligently misused, damaged, defaced, destroyed or alienated, or without
authorisation, used any building, furniture or equipment, computer, vehicle, notes, documents
or any other property owned or controlled by STADIO or by any employee of STADIO, or by any
registered Student of STADIO
Sanction
The guilty Student shall be liable to receive:
a warning; and/or
(ii)
a fine; and/or
(iii)
payment of compensation for the damage caused and/or repairs of/restores any
property damaged by his/her conduct.
The extent of the punishment will be determined by the facts of the case and the seriousness of
the misconduct.
1.5
Intentionally or negligently mismanaged and/or misappropriated funds of STADIO
If a Student is found to have acted intentionally, s/he shall be liable to receive:
payment of compensation for all losses sustained; and/or
prevention from holding any office at STADIO which would involve working
with institutional finances and financial management; and/or
(iv)
denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a minimum
period of one year and a maximum period of two years;
If a Student is found to have acted negligently, s/he shall be liable to receive:
a fine and/or
payment of a compensation for all losses sustained; and/or
prevention from holding any office at the STADIO which would involve
working with institutional finances and financial management.
1.6
Introduced liquor on to the STADIO premises without consent of the CEO (or a person duly
authorised by the CEO)
If the liquor is introduced onto any STADIO premises for the purposes of consumption,
the following sanction will apply:
A fine; and/or
23
Denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a
period maximum of one year, which sanction shall be suspended for one
year. Should the accused Student be found guilty of any misconduct involving
alcohol during the period of the suspended sentence, the sanction shall
become immediately effective.
If the liquor is introduced on to any STADIO premises for the purposes of dealing
and/or sale, the following sanction will apply:
maximum period of one year.
Consumed or abused liquor while on any STADIO premises
A Student found guilty of such misconduct will be liable to receive:
A warning; and/or
A fine.
Under the influence of such liquor while on any STADIO premises
a fine.
1.7
Introduced an illegal dependence‐producing substance (as defined in section 1 of the Drugs and
Drug Trafficking Act, 1992 as amended) and/or Cannabis onto any STADIO premises; or is found
to have been in possession of such illegal substance or is under the influence of such substance
while on any STADIO premises
If the illegal dependence‐producing substance and/or Cannabis is introduced onto any
STADIO premises for the purposes of CONSUMPTION, the following sanction will apply:
(i)
maximum period of one year, which sanction shall be suspended for one
illegal dependence‐producing substances and/or Cannabis during the period
of the suspended sentence, the sanction shall become immediately effective.
STADIO premises for the purposes of DEALING and/or SALE, the following sanction will
apply:
24
1.8
Without proper authorisation
1.8.1
brought onto or stored on any STADIO premises a firearm, other dangerous weapon,
or a fuel that cannot reasonably be shown to be required for the operation of a motor
vehicle, a generator or any explosive devices
bringing onto or storing on any STADIO premises a firearm, other dangerous
weapons or the fuel during the period of the suspended sentence, the
sanction shall become immediately effective.
1.8.2
Allowed or arranged a firearm, other dangerous weapon, or a fuel that cannot
reasonably be shown to be required for the operation of a motor vehicle, a generator
or any explosive devices
bringing onto or storing on the STADIO premises a firearm, other dangerous
weapons or fuel during the period of the suspended sentence, the sanction
shall become immediately effective.
1.9
Sexually or otherwise harassed any person as defined in a Student Sexual Harassment Policy
(Students) (SA P004), while on any STADIO premises
The sanction will be determined by the nature of the misconduct.
1.10
Acted in any manner which constitutes an unlawful infringement of any right protected in the
Bill of Rights (sections 7 to 39) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 and/or acted in a racist
manner towards any person while on any STADIO premises
1.11
Committed an indecent act while on any STADIO premises
25
Denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a period of
one maximum year, which sanction shall be suspended for one year. Should the
accused Student be found guilty of any misconduct involving indecent acts while on
any STADIO premises during the period of the suspended sentence, the sanction shall
The sanction to be imposed will be determined by the facts of the case and the seriousness of
1.12
Unlawfully expressed, published or disseminated in speech, writing, print or other medium on
any STADIO premises any views, beliefs or ideology that infringe upon the dignity or other
human rights of any Student or groups of Students, or any STADIO member of the staff, or
person invited by STADIO as a guest
A Student must be directed to provide a formal apology to the person(s) or group
offended; and/or
Denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a maximum
period of one year, which sanction shall be suspended for one year. Should the accused
Student be found guilty of any misconduct involving a publication or dissemination of
material(s) that infringes the dignity or other human rights of any member of STADIO
during the period of the suspended sentence, the sanction shall become immediately
effective.
1.13
Without the written permission of the CEO or duly authorised person used the name of STADIO,
or used or displayed the logo of STADIO
the misconduct in addition to the intention of a Student concerned.
1.14
Convened an assembly on any STADIO premises without obtaining the prior written consent
from the CEO or the person duly authorised by him or her or attended a gathering prohibited by
the CEO
26
one year, which sanction shall be suspended for one year. Should the accused Student
be found guilty of any misconduct involving assembly convened or attend a prohibited
gathering without obtaining a required prior written consent from the CEO during the
period of the suspended sentence, the sanction shall become immediately effective.
1.15
Knowingly made a false statement about STADIO or otherwise intentionally provided materially
false information to anyone inside or outside of STADIO about STADIO
Refusal of admission to an examination for a subject(s) relating or affected by the false
information provided; and/or
Annulment of examination results and/or withdrawal of a credit(s) obtained in a study
module(s) affected by the false information provided; and/or
(v)
Denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a minimum
period of three years and a maximum period of five years; and/or
(vi)
Revocation of a degree, diploma or other qualification obtained from STADIO based
on the information provided; and/or
(vii)
The sanction to be imposed will be determined by the facts of the case and the
seriousness of the misconduct in addition to the intention of a Student concerned.
1.16
Intentionally or negligently tendered or presented to any employee of STADIO any document
which s/he knows or ought to reasonably know to be false or a forgery and which caused or has
the potential to cause prejudice to the administrative, financial or academic interest of STADIO
module(s) and/or courses affected by the false or forged information provided; and/or
period of three years and a maximum period of five years; and/or
Depending on the seriousness of the misconduct, expulsion from STADIO as a Student;
and/or
(v)
on the information provided.
1.17
Accepted or offered a bribe to Students, employee of STADIO and/or any other official of STADIO
27
Depending on the seriousness of the misconduct, a suspension carrying a minimum
period of 12 months and a maximum period of three years; and/or
Prevention from holding any office at STADIO; and/or
Depending on the seriousness of the misconduct, expulsion from STADIO.
1.18
Reproduced or transmitted in any form or manner, whether electronically or mechanically
(including photocopying and faxing), any study/learner guide(s), book(s), thesis/dissertation,
article(s), examination paper(s), lecture or any other study aids in respect of which copyright
exists, unless the copyright owner’s permission for the reproduction or transmission is obtained
Depending on the seriousness of the misconduct,
Depending on the seriousness of the misconduct, a denial of the privilege to register
or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a minimum period of one year and a
maximum period of three years.
1.19
Contravened the provisions in respect of Copyright and Plagiarism, including but not limited to
the Plagiarism SOP (SA 016) as fully indicated and as distributed to all Students with each module
If it is in relation to a portion of work in an assignment, forfeiture of the marks for the
said parts found to have been copied and/or plagiarised; and/or
If it is in relation to a portion of work in an examination, forfeiture of the marks for the
If it is in relation to the whole assignment, forfeiture of the marks for the whole
assignment as copied and/or plagiarised; and/or
If it is in relation to the whole examination, forfeiture of the marks for the whole
examination as copied and/or plagiarised; and/or
Cancellation of a Student’s registration for the module(s) or subjects in question and
forfeiture of any amount(s) already paid or due for the said module(s); and/or
In cases of repeated offenders, denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a
Student at STADIO for a minimum period of three years and a maximum period of five
years.
1.20
Behaves in a way that leads or led to:
the good name and reputation of STADIO being impaired,
the maintenance of order, discipline and security of STADIO being prejudiced or
imperilled,
the tuition, research and administration processes and general STADIO activities
28
being prejudiced or imperilled,
and was or should have reasonably foreseen at the time when such behaviour occurred
The penalty will be determined by the nature of the misconduct.
1. 21
Is found to have STOLEN, SOLD, AND/OR DISTRIBUTED any examination paper(s) before the
scheduled examination
period of three years and a maximum period of five years.
In cases of repeated offenders, expulsion from STADIO as a Student.
1.22
Is found to have been in POSSESSION of stolen examination paper(s) and/or distributed any
examination paper(s) before the scheduled examination
1.23
In relation to assessments
(a)
Is found guilty of cheating in any STADIO assessments, to include examinations and
assignments
Where a Student is found in POSSESSION of unauthorised material in the exam venue
and there is no evidence that a Student used or intended to use the notes, the sanction
imposed is:
period of six months.
Where it is proved that a Student USED the unauthorised material, the sanction
Cancellation of the credit if a Student passed the module or a fine equivalent
to the cost of the module if a Student failed the module in question; and/or
period of one year.
29
In cases of a repeated offender, denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a
Student at STADIO for a period of two years.
The nature of the unauthorised material is relevant in determining use or intention to
use. If there is a clear indication of intention to use, then the sanction must be dealt
with as for USE – even if the Invigilator did not actually see a Student using the said
materials.
If it is proven that a Student threatened the Invigilator(s), this is an
aggravating factor and a period of six months’ suspension must be added to
the sanction that would normally be imposed for POSSESSION.
However, the sanction imposed for a Student‘s threatening misconduct is not
subject to suspension and will run consecutively with any other sanction
imposed.
In instances of a repeat offender
For POSSESSION, the period of suspension for the first offence becomes
effective and a Student must be suspended for a further minimum period of
six months and a maximum period of three years.
For USE – taking into account the first offence, a Student may be expelled
from STADIO as a Student.
Is found to have an unauthorised removal or attempted to remove from an examination room
any examination book or writing paper supplied by STADIO for the purposes of answering an
examination paper,
Used false name, identity or Student number in an examination,
Submitted for examination as his/her own any material/documentation that has been copied,
reproduced, or extracted in whole or in part from the work of another or some other person, or
which is substantially the same in whole or in part as the work of another Student,
Intentionally or negligently assisted another to cheat as defined in clause 2.2 of the Students’
Disciplinary Code, and/or
Committed any fraudulent or dishonest practice whereby a Student, while being examined by
STADIO, sought to mislead or deceive the examiner or the examination officer or the Invigilator
In cases of a Student who is found guilty of cheating in an examination, cancellation of
the credit if a Student passed the module or a fine equivalent to the cost of the module
if a Student failed the module in question; and/or
(ii)
A denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a Student at STADIO for a minimum
period of one year and a maximum period of two years.
(iii)
In cases of repeated offenders, a denial of the privilege to register or enrol again as a
Student at STADIO for a maximum period of 5 years.
30